---
title: Pipulate Free and Open Source AI SEO Software
description: Pipulate is a free and open source SEO software project that uses AI to automate SEO tasks. It runs locally on your machine so you can cycle IPs and automate web browsers without getting blocked or paying for a service. The rub is you're going to have to allow a normalized Linux server to run on your Windows or Mac laptop, and maybe have to learn something. Sorry.
permalink: /pipulate/
layout: default
group: pipulate
---

# Pipulate Free and Open Source AI SEO Software

## Uh, it's really just Jupiter Notebook installed properly (with a real Linux Python)

Sorry folks, if you thought you were finding yet another spam cannon here that
ruins everything for everyone, you're going to have to go get those WordPress
plugins elsewhere. Pipulate is a free and open source project that only uses AI
to get rid of the laborious tasks of writing alternative headlines, meta
descriptions, extracting keywords for navigation and other uses.

One paragraph to preach to your dumb asses, then I'm done and it'll all be
practical application, preparing you to be the last SEO standing in this
rapidly changing profession. Ever hear of tragedy of the commons? One person
gets a free pass then holds open the door for everyone else to come in and
crowd the place. That's what happened to SEO ***already*** with every link
citation being a manipulated vote on relevance designed to game Google's
algorithm. It's not just SEO. 

This sort of cheating by cheaters who cheat (versus meritoriously ***winning***
the link compelled by the power of the content) is everywhere. It's in
politics, it's in business, it's in sports, it's in the arts, it's in academia,
it's in the media, it's in the military, it's in the church, it's in the
family, it's in the school, it's in the home. It's common. It's just a tragedy,
that's all. Everything old is new again, and so begins our ruining of the next
new big thing, AI.

Climbing down off my horse now, folks. It's all practical application of the
new dark arts of white hat AI SEO from here on out. I'm going to show you how
to install Jupiter Notebook properly. This means you will be running a real,
genuine copy of Python. If you have a local copy of Python installed from the
Microsoft Store (typing python from PowerShell) or from Anaconda, you're on the
wrong path. Even grabbing a copy from Python.org for a direct Windows or Mac
install is wrong. Why? Because your code will be non-standard, and your
attempts to make progress will die from a thousand cuts. 

You won't believe me at first and you will try to make it work with your
existing Python or Anaconda or even what's known as jupyterlab-desktop from
Github (a Microsoft MSI installer). It will work for awhile, but in about 5 or
10 years when everyone else has made the move from Jupyter to real Linux
automation employing AI and Linux services called ***daemons***, you will look
back and recall reading this and wish you had listened to Mike. Join the class
of SEOs (and Data Scientists) who are able to make the transition from a
***LOST*** state (sitting and hitting the button every time) to those who can
bippity, boopity, bopity, boop their way into the increasingly easy field of
DevOps.

Okay, now I climb off my high horse. The funny thing is it's way easier to get
started on this path than anyone things. Microsoft and Apple both ***had*** to
make it this way, because any platform that can't host a ***normalized*** Linux
virtual machine development sub-system is not a credible platform. Apple thinks
they get a pass because they have a Unix underpinning, but they don't. All
modern tooling, especially in the AI space, is Linux-based. Microsoft was
all-in since 2017 when they introduced their Windows Subsystem for Linux
(WSL)... uhhh subsystem. It's a Linux kernel that runs on Windows. So Windows
is good. Both Windows 10 and Windows 11 is Pipulate-ready.

For Macs to get the same thing, outside parties had to come and "fix" the Apple
platform to get a real Linux kernel, just like the hacker community had to fix
Macs to have a free and open source software (FOSS) repository with
***homebrew***. Homebrew is still not an official Apple thing (I mean come on,
it's called homebrew). And neither is the Linux kernel that gets Macs ready to
pipulate. The very same uber-partner that supercharged Microsoft's Linux
strategy, Ubuntu, came and implemented Mutipass.

So ultimately, Pipulate is the fined state of your Windows or Mac laptop after
having run a rather simple script to set all this up. On Windows, it's always
best to install Ubuntu 20.04 LTS from the Microsoft Store first. That's because
I don't want to take responsibility or have the tech support nightmare of
turning the (turned-off by default) hypervisor feature on your hardware on. All
hardware has and supports this, since like 2005. 2010 by the latest. But
because it increases moving parts and potential system crashes, it's turned off
by default. But it's necessary to turn on so your Linux subsystem can run
properly.

So, you install Ubuntu 20.04 LTS from the Microsoft Store, and then you run the
script found at [DrinkMe](/drinkme/). It's that simple. You will now have a
***real*** copy of Python (not one of those hacked for proprietary OS's) and be
able to immediately reach it from your Windows or Mac web browser at
[http://localhost:8888](http://localhost:8888).

Do you hear what I'm telling you? All this talk about Linux and you won't even
have to look at Linux. You won't need to use the command-line (though you
eventually should) and you won't need to do anything different than you
otherwise would if you were going the Anaconda route or jupyterlab-desktop
route. You'll just have a better Python in the same browser you always use. Bu
it will be a local ***cloud*** version of Python, and you'll be able to run
***daemons*** that run in the background and do things for you. And when it
comes time to scale up, you'll be able to do that too, because your code will
be normalized and ready to run on any Linux server, anywhere (i.e. any cloud
provider).

All this, and still you're going to use Docker, I assure you. You're also going
to use VSCode and get one of the kookiest user interfaces ever created,
***designed*** to lock you into the Microsoft ecosystem. But you'll be able to
follow along with everyone else's YouTube videos and tutorials, so you'll have
a warm and cozy feeling, save in the comfort-zone. But for those able to step
outside their comfort zone, even a weeeeee little bit, a bright new future
awaits you, where you'll never go obsolete again.
