<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-linux-graphics-and-systemd-support-takes-priority-over-lxd/">WSL Linux Graphics and Systemd Support Takes Priority Over LXD</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm MikleVin and I recently created a new repository to prioritize getting Linux graphics and SYSTEMD working over LXD Linux Containers in the Windows Subsystem for Linux. Check out my repository 'drinkme' at https://github.com/miklevin/drinkme and stay tuned for my upcoming video to explain these changes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-added-linux-graphics-and-systemd-to-wsl-for-windows-10/">Microsoft Added Linux Graphics and Systemd to WSL for Windows 10</a> (Sun Nov 27, 2022)
<br/>I recently installed Linux graphics and Systemd on Windows 10, and now I'm exploring the aftermath. I'm researching how to make the vGPU accessible and usable, mapping locations and environment variables, and setting up the WAYLAND_DISPLAY and XDG_RUNTIME_DIR. I'm looking into lxdwin script, Levinux/Getonux projects, and lxc config set to configure the jupyter environment. Join me as I explore the aftermath of this installation!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/permission-denied-publickey-fatal-could-not-read-from-remote-repository/">Permission denied publickey fatal Could not read from remote repository</a> (Fri Nov 04, 2022)
<br/>I encountered a problem when trying to git clone a repository from an LXD Linux Container running on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). After discovering the container was running in unprivileged mode, I changed it to privileged mode with the lxc config command and rebooted. This fixed the file permissions issue and allowed me to successfully git clone the repository. Read more about my experience and how I solved the problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-need-a-personal-server-in-your-life-the-time-is-nigh/">You Need a Personal Server In Your Life & The Time is Nigh</a> (Thu Oct 27, 2022)
<br/>I discovered that I could use my NAS as an application server, and with the help of Linux containers, I could transfer my laptop simulations to a home cloud without any fees. I was able to condition myself to go the direction I wanted to go and reach my goals, and mastering generic Linux was key for my long-term success. Read my blog post to learn how I did it and create your own personal server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switching-from-wsl-to-lxd-containers-permanently/">Switching From WSL to LXD Containers Permanently</a> (Tue Sep 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big change to my workflow and switching from Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to LXD Containers on Windows. I've set up the mappings and added a command to my .bash_profile in WSL, and now I'm testing to make sure it's working. I'm hoping to move all my work over to the Container, and I've even figured out a trick to find the Windows home location. Come read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-jupyter-from-lxd-linux-container-on-windows/">Run Jupyter from LXD Linux Container on Windows</a> (Thu Sep 08, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to run Jupyter from an LXD Linux Container on Windows with me! I walk you through setting up an LXD container, adding a proxy device, logging into the container, adding a Python 3.10 virtual environment, creating a .bash_profile to activate the venv, installing Jupyter Lab, creating a script to run Jupyter in a way that the proxy can reach, and finally setting up a browser window to access Jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-ready-to-teach-installing-jupyter-right/">Getting Ready to Teach Installing Jupyter Right</a> (Wed Sep 07, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up Linux containers under WSL for testing purposes, using a magical incantation to install Jupyter. I'm running into issues with the container having a different internal IP than the one on Windows-side, so I'm researching commands like lxc config and jupyter server to bridge, NAT, and proxy. After setting a password on Jupyter, I was able to access the LX - come read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-share-an-ssh-key-with-linux-container-to-eliminate-passwords/">How to Share an SSH Key with Linux Container to Eliminate Passwords</a> (Fri Aug 05, 2022)
<br/>I recently faced a challenge when trying to get code up to Github from a newly created Linux container. To solve this, I figured out a way to share my SSH keys from my host system to the container, eliminating the need for passwords. To help others, I created a video and shared the code on Github. Learn how to share SSH keys from a host system to a Linux container with my easy-to-follow guide.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-perceptual-image-hash-as-database-primary-key-for-cats/">Use Perceptual Image Hash as Database Primary Key for Cats</a> (Thu Aug 04, 2022)
<br/>I switched up my pip install scheduler to pip install huey and used Python PIL and ImageHash libraries to calculate a perceptual image hash for each cat. This hash was used as the filename and primary key for a shared SQLite3 database, which I then accessed from a Windows system in JupyterLab Desktop. Check out my blog post to see how it all worked out!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/share-folder-between-windows-wsl-linux-container-and-home-cloud/">Share Folder Between Windows, WSL Linux, Container and Home Cloud</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As an IT professional, I'm setting up a shared ~/data folder across four different locations: my laptop's main Windows system, a Linux system running under WSL2, an LXD Linux Container hosted under WSL2, and an LXD Container hosted on a separate machine. I'm mapping a network drive from my laptop's Windows system, mounting a drive from the Linux system, and adding a device to the LXD Linux Container. Follow my journey as I set up this complex shared folder</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-you-still-really-need-windows-switching-to-linux-in-2022/">Do You Still Really Need Windows? Switching To Linux in 2022</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As tech becomes more and more essential to our daily lives, I'm discussing the importance of understanding generic tech, and why Windows is becoming obsolete. I'm exploring why Linux is the way to go, and why using containers under Linux is the best way to future-proof your work. I'm also discussing why Docker should be used from Windows and why it's important. Join me as I explain why it's essential to keep up with tech trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-gnu-screen-to-monitor-linux-system-daemon-service/">Using GNU Screen to Monitor Linux System Daemon Service</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to install Linux on Windows machines and get Linux services running under GNU Screen under an LXD Container. Discover the advantages of mastering generic Linux tech over web development and how to get started. I provide an example of a Python script to monitor a Linux system daemon service, and I walk you through the steps for installing Ubuntu 18.04, updating the file /etc/systemd/system/pulse.service, installing the program screen.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/setting-up-lxd-on-wsl2-with-systemd-enabled-ubuntu-18-04/">Setting Up LXD on WSL2 with systemd enabled Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Wed Jul 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my first LXD container on WSL2, using Ubuntu 18.04. I've used lxd init and lxc launch to get the container running, and added two locations from the WSL2 Linux host to the container. I'm now preparing to start experimenting and need to make sure I have the right tools installed. I'm also learning how to check if systemd is running, and getting everything ready for my first container.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/linux-container-under-windows-10-wsl-supporting-graphics/">Linux Container Under Windows 10 WSL Supporting Graphics</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered that it is possible to get Linux graphics working with Linux containers on Windows 10 using VcXsrv. I figured out how to capture the DISPLAY variable from the host Linux and pass it to the container by writing it to a shared file. This technique is similar to activating Python virtual environments, and I'm excited to share my findings with you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-container-on-windows-wsl2-using-nas-smb-cifs-share/">LXD Container on Windows WSL2 Using NAS SMB/CIFS Share</a> (Mon Jul 25, 2022)
<br/>After struggling to set up a LXD container, I found the solution to my problem - mapping my NAS, .ssh folder, .gitconfig, and .vimrc files, and then running two commands from within the container. I also had to mount a Windows network share using the command 'sudo mount -t drvfs '\\EchidNAS\data' /mnt/data'. Now my LXD container is running as expected.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/refresh-your-mind-with-the-lxd-api/">Refresh Your Mind With The LXD API</a> (Mon Jul 18, 2022)
<br/>Recently, I moved back to New York City and have been struggling both emotionally and financially. To thrive in tomorrow's world, I'm learning the LXD API to create containers and refresh my mind. With the lxc command, I can easily create a new container, even adding a user and password if I want. I'm amazed at how quickly I can create a container, and can't wait to see what the future holds.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-the-lxd-lxc-command-line-api/">Figuring Out The LXD/LXC Command-line API</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>As a Linux user, I recently received a notice that my LXC container is unsupported. To learn the LXD/LXC command-line API, I discovered the command `lxc exec instance_name -- command` to execute commands in the LXD image, `lxc list` to view containers, `lxc start foo` to start one, and `lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu` to log.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage</li>
<li><a href="/blog/throw-all-the-meat-veggies-into-the-stew-stir-the-blog-vlog/">Throw All The Meat & Veggies Into The Stew & Stir The Blog / Vlog</a> (Fri Jun 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently wrote a blog post about my experience with downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 so I could use LXD Linux containers on WSL Windows Subsystem for Linux. To make my workflow more efficient, I created a vim keyboard macro that generates the site I'm editing and added sites to sites.csv in the skite repo. Read my blog post to find out how this game-changing experience helped me streamline my workflow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/there-s-no-place-like-home-you-get-to-decide-where-that-is-or-do-you/">There's No Place Like Home & You Get To Decide Where That Is... Or Do You?</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>In this video, I show how to use symbolic links to map a Windows home folder to a Linux home folder, and how to use the 'ln' command and '-s' switch. I also explain setting up a virtualenv as a bonus. I emphasize the importance of backing up .config files in order to avoid losing work in the Linux container. Watch now to learn how to set up your Windows/Linux environment!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reverting-wsl2-from-ubuntu-20-04-to-18-04-to-get-lxd-containers-working/">Reverting WSL2 From Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 To Get LXD Containers Working</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently explored the process of downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 under WSL2, as well as concepts such as LXD, venv, virtualenv, tmux, screen, and Python. I discussed the importance of good fixed-file-location habits, and how LXD is similar to venv/virtualenv in terms of packaging dependencies. I also compared Docker and LXD. To further my learning, I am dedicating my lunch break and free time to</li>
<li><a href="/blog/install-zfsutils-linux-to-prep-for-lxd-on-wsl/">Install ZFSUtils-Linux To Prep For LXD on WSL</a> (Mon May 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm on a mission to move my life forward, so I'm looking around the world to find the answers. Today, I'm focusing on LXD, a Linux container service, and I'm learning how to install ZFS Filesystem for Linux and the advantages of containers over virtual machines. Come along with me on my journey and read my blog post to see what I'm learning.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/jupyter/">Jupyter</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/openai/">OpenAI</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>