<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/admiring-the-usefulness-of-yaml-ness-in-my-journaling-system/">Admiring the Usefulness of YAML-ness in my Journaling System</a> (Sat Apr 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm reveling in the glory of my code working as it should. I'm using YAML-ness to create a journaling system with a dictionary of lower-case usage as keys and all the happenstance uses as lists in each value. I wrote a program to parse a journal file and extracted the front matter of each post, then loaded it into a YAML dictionary. I'm now ready to give this a title and share my journey of slicing up my life into chunks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-ai-s-opinion-of-hottest-tech-fields/">Exploring AI's Opinion of Hottest Tech Fields</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I asked ChatGPTL what the top five tech specialties following Linux were that would give me the most value to employers. ChatGPTL responded with a list of five highly sought-after and well-paying skills: IT Automation, AI & Machine Learning, Quantum Computing, Connected Technologies, and Fintech. Read my blog post to learn more about these skills and how to determine which ones are right for you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rethinking-a-career-in-seo/">Rethinking a Career in SEO</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO professional, I am rethinking my career in light of the new era of search engines. Google's dominance has been challenged by ChatGPT and Microsoft, and content production techniques that don't add value are now being ignored. I'm noticing that Google is favoring incumbents more than ever, and the old PageRank system is slowly being replaced by other systems. I'm exploring the implications of this shift, and the impact it will have on my career.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-an-seo-from-icky-guy-to-ikigai-in-20-short-years/">Being An SEO: From Icky Guy to Ikigai in 20 Short Years</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>After considering a career in science, I chose to pursue SEO due to its data-driven nature. When Google stopped passing on keyword data, I was forced to switch to statistical models, which I was unprepared for. After years of feeling icky, I am now looking for a career that aligns with my values and interests. I am excited to start a new project which involves reading emails and creating a majordomo-like program using the string method splitlines and join.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-seo-step-1-persistent-dictionaries/">Python SEO Step #1: Persistent Dictionaries</a> (Wed May 25, 2022)
<br/>In this session, I will teach you how to use Python for SEO, including how to target keywords, collect data, and use machine learning algorithms. We will use JupyterLab, Python dictionaries, and a context manager to eliminate extra code. I will also discuss SqliteDict, a free and open source SQL database, as a key/value system. Learn how to use URLs as keys in key/value pair systems.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/liquid/">Liquid</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/string/">String</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>