<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automatically-log-into-moz-pro-with-playwright-browser-automation/">Automatically Log Into MOZ Pro with Playwright Browser Automation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post will walk you through using Microsoft Playwright's browser automation software to automatically log into MOZ Pro and download Keyword Explorer data for each subdomain. Using asynchronous mode and my standard Chrome automation template, I am logging into the MOZ Pro website and using the Keyword Explorer feature to pull keywords from a given site with the help of the async Python library. Read on to learn how to automate this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/optimizing-moz-pro-true-competitor-keyword-overlap-for-quota-limits/">Optimizing MOZ Pro True Competitor Keyword Overlap For Quota Limits</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I'm using the MOZ Pro True Competitor report to optimize keyword overlap, and have identified 128 competitors. After filtering them to those with at least 2% overlap, I'm left with 59 unique sites to download. To ensure accuracy, I'm adding the original sites and their subdomains back into the list. Now, I'm feeling rested and ready to tackle a mini-project of renaming the downloads without subdomains. Join me as I take on this task!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/project-deteriorates-into-tools-discussion-again/">Project Deteriorates Into Tools Discussion Again</a> (Fri Apr 14, 2023)
<br/>I started a project in MOZ Pro by selecting a domain and downloading the CSV file. I then added 30_data.ipynb to the repo, using the apex domain as part of the filename. After that, I had a list of competitors and I could pull their keywords. I was tempted to try VSCode running as a Linux app on WSL, but the UI was too clunky. I share my experience in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tackling-moz-browser-automation-until-i-get-it-right/">Tackling MOZ Browser Automation Until I Get It Right</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm tackling browser automation with the MOZ Links API and Chrome, and have set up a Playwright context on a Linux server. I'm writing code to automate tasks for MOZ Pro, and running the code from the command line with "python mozpro.py -k" to analyze keywords and download the results. Join me on my journey as I explore the possibilities of automated browser tasks with MOZ Pro!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hello-world-and-life-is-worth-it/">Hello World and Life is Worth It 🦋!</a> (Mon Apr 03, 2023)
<br/>Since March 10, 2020, I've been streaming and journaling with an AI assistant. I'm researching quantum computing, SEO tools, and how to join data from different sources. I'm advocating for timeless tools like Linux, Python, vim, and git, and exploring creative prompting as a skill that can lead to high salaries. As I'm not interested in creating a computer intelligence, I'm looking into how Microsoft and Google are raising their AI kids.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-copilot-to-help-with-daily-journaling/">Using Copilot to Help With Daily Journaling</a> (Wed Mar 29, 2023)
<br/>I recently received a video from my boss about the potential of AIs in the future and was reminded of the opportunities and dangers that come with this technology. I decided to write in my journal about the potential of technology and my plans to stay ahead of the curve. I switched from Vim to NeoVim, enabled Copilot for markdown files, and tested out the new feature. I also discussed my plans to stream the breakthrough live on YouTube and shared my thoughts on SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hands-on-with-moz-products-clarification-of-what-s-what/">Hands-on With Moz Products & Clarification of What's What</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>I am currently in my fourth week as a Moz employee, and I am learning about the various products they offer. I am using the Free SEO Tools to test the boundaries of the free product, exploring Moz Local, Moz Pro, Free SEO Tools, and Resources, as well as the MozBar Premium and the Links API V1 & V2. I am documenting my progress and thoughts on my public blog, and publishing videos on YouTube to reduce fear and create consistency.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-seo-software/">What is the best SEO software?</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>Discover the benefits of using Python under JupyterLab and Linux for SEO needs. I'm encouraging readers to try this free and open source software, which offers more flexibility and control than proprietary systems and expensive services. I'm assuring readers that it's an approachable and enjoyable process and that they don't need to be an expert in Linux or Python to use these tools. Join me in exploring the potential of Python and Linux for SEO optimization.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/microsoft playwright/">Microsoft Playwright</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/lpvg/">LPvg</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>