<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tried-to-start-a-project/">Tried To Start a Project</a> (Sun Oct 02, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm taking the plunge and starting a project I've been putting off - importing my MikeLev.in repo from WordPress. I'm considering giving up dates in the URLs so that blog posts look evergreen, but I'm wondering if I can selectively override the URL-generating system for individual blog posts. Join me as I take this journey and find out what happens next!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bopping-between-python-bash-scripts-no-biggie/">Bopping Between Python & Bash Scripts No Biggie</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved my Wordpress site off of my HostMonster account and exported the content as markdown. To re-publish the content, I used Github Pages and managed the blog content across 15 sites with a single journal.md file and a bash file. To make the process easier, I wrote a Python script, make_helpers, to manage the sites.txt file and change the order of the file locations. Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/submerging-a-migrated-wordpress-site/">Submerging A Migrated WordPress Site</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm in the midst of migrating my WordPress blog to Jekyll and am running into a few issues. I'm moving the index.md file, making a subfolder, and renaming the file to index.md. While I've brought my old homepage back to life, I'm now dealing with broken picture links that I must fix. Follow my journey as I work through this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-programming-is-easy-but-math-is-hard/">Why Programming Is Easy But Math Is Hard</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who has struggled with math since high school, I have used Python and other tools to make it easier for me. I recently created my first Jekyll blog post and am now working on adding headlines. I'm excited to share my journey and hope it helps other people who are also struggling with math. Come read my blog post and join me on this journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/vi/">Vi</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/history/">history</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>