<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/steve-jobs-and-bill-gates-having-amiga-envy/">Steve Jobs and Bill Gates having Amiga-envy</a> (Tue Apr 25, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on an AI-assisted YAMLesque journaling system and have made changes to my website using Jekyll, Liquid Template, and Python to create an open source SEO software. I'm almost finished and ready to release my post, so come and see the results of my project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-a-new-blogging-system-create-a-title-field-under-date-to-release/">Starting a New Blogging System (create a title field under date to release)</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new journal entry system with the 80-long hyphen as a blog-slicer token and place-holder for the Liquid template system. I'm using Jekyll, an open source static site generator, and a macro system to ensure reverse-chronological entries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/easier-illustration-technique-i-seek-may-be-mermaid/">Easier Illustration Technique I Seek May Be Mermaid</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered Mermaid, a JavaScript-based diagramming and charting tool that makes illustration and diagramming for SEO purposes easier. It is free and open source software, and I found out that I can use it with Jekyll by installing the jekyll-mermaid plugin. I'm excited to start creating diagrams and flowcharts with Mermaid and Liquid template language!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/week-3-at-moz-step-up-your-game/">Week 3 at Moz, Step-Up Your Game</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new job at Moz and want to get off to a good start. I'm journaling live and making it more social, using open source text editor Vim and working on a project called Pipulate. I'm sharing my thoughts with my audience daily and have found Python to be the best fit for me. My goal is to get others to install JupyterLab under an invisible Linux VM, making the journey onto Linux an appealing adventure.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-seo-software/">What is the best SEO software?</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>Discover the benefits of using Python under JupyterLab and Linux for SEO needs. I'm encouraging readers to try this free and open source software, which offers more flexibility and control than proprietary systems and expensive services. I'm assuring readers that it's an approachable and enjoyable process and that they don't need to be an expert in Linux or Python to use these tools. Join me in exploring the potential of Python and Linux for SEO optimization.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-free-open-source-seo-software-youtube-reply/">Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO Software YouTube Reply</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>Join me in developing Pipulate, an open-source SEO software powered by Linux, Python, JupyterLab, and Raspberry Pi's. I'm creating a 24/7 service to do SERP scraping, HTML report emailing, and more. Plus, I'm working on a way to simplify the scripts and update the W - come join me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-road-to-microsoft-semi-independence/">The Road to Microsoft Semi-Independence</a> (Tue Jan 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to promote Free and Open Source SEO Software and show people how to set up a server on their Windows 10 or 11 laptops. I'm encouraging people to use Linux as a standard feature on Windows 10 and 11 via the Windows Subsystem for Linux and to be aware of Microsoft's paid services. I'm suggesting using vim instead of VSCode, as it is an industry standard and not tied to a vendor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/me-vs-chatgpt-tell-me-why-i-should-use-the-python-programming-language/">Me vs. ChatGPT: Tell me why I should use the Python programming language.</a> (Wed Dec 14, 2022)
<br/>As a programmer, I use Python because it aligns with my vibe and allows me to express myself. It is easy to learn, free and open source, and has a large and supportive community. It is also a high-level language, dynamically-typed, and versatile, with a rich set of built-in data types and standard libraries. I'm confident that Python is the perfect language for me to use and grow with.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/success/">Success</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/coding/">Coding</a></div></div>