<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/unix-linux-won-are-now-the-rules-of-the-road/">Unix/Linux Won & Are Now The Rules of The Road</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin is a 20+ year veteran of the SEO industry who has seen many changes in technology over the years. From his experience as a student intern at Commodore to his current knowledge of Intel Management Engine (IME) and its implications for privacy, Mike has a deep understanding of Unix/Linux and its ever-growing presence in the tech world. Read his blog post to learn more about his journey and the impact of Unix/Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-world-has-changed-because-systemd-on-windows/">The World Has Changed Because SystemD on Windows</a> (Wed Jan 25, 2023)
<br/>As I reflect on how much the world has changed in recent months, I'm struck by the impact of AI and the integration of Linux services (systemd) into Windows 10 and 11. This opens up a world of possibilities for mainstream development, without relying on Microsoft back-slashes. Microsoft's purchase of Github for 7.5 billion dollars has also had a major effect on development habits. I urge readers to click through to learn more about the implications of these changes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/managing-static-vs-dynamic-leads-to-practical-fusion-a-better-you/">Managing Static Vs. Dynamic Leads to Practical Fusion & a Better You</a> (Thu Dec 15, 2022)
<br/>As a parent, I am helping my preteen navigate the transition from childhood to adulthood by encouraging them to observe, ask questions, and narrate their experiences. I am teaching them the importance of both static and dynamic states of being, which are both necessary for growth, from developing atomic energy to the inner workings of our own lives. I am also reflecting on my own journey of self-inspection and self-modification, which I had to do in order to grow and develop during transitional periods.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-playwright-codegen-and-playwright-inspector-tools/">Python Playwright CodeGen and Playwright Inspector Tools</a> (Thu Dec 08, 2022)
<br/>I'm using the Python Playwright CodeGen and Playwright Inspector Tools to make automation easier. With the built-in tools I can record my browser activity and generate code for it. After experimenting with different commands, I was able to successfully run the python -m playwright codegen --target python-async command, allowing me to record my automation code in JupyterLab. I also created two templates for easier development.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-bottom-turtle-is-microsoft-and-that-s-okay/">The Bottom Turtle is Microsoft, and That's Okay</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>As a developer, I recently discovered that Windows is now the best platform for development. Microsoft has embraced Linux and its associated technologies, offering the Ubuntu repository and the Windows Subsystem for Linux, which enables developers to access Linux commands and the command-line interface. With popular commands such as cd, ls, chmod, and chown, I'm able to do a lot without being a hardcore programmer. Read my blog to find out why I believe Windows is the best development platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-kick-that-football-charlie-brown/">Don't Kick That Football, Charlie Brown!</a> (Sun May 15, 2022)
<br/>As a person who prefers to make up my own games and rules, I understand the importance of understanding different levels of the brain in order to grow. I also recognize that what makes us human is our ability to think and act in ways that are beyond the capabilities of animals. I believe that by examining ourselves, recording our thoughts and interactions, and drawing conclusions, we can take control of our growth and development and increase our chances of success. Through this blog post, I will share my insights on how</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/bash/">Bash</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/2022/">2022</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>