<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-error-invalidrequesterror-this-model-s-maximum-context-length-is-4097-tokens/">openai.error.InvalidRequestError: This model's maximum context length is 4097 tokens</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Learn how I used the OpenAI Codex API to optimize my articles for website navigation. I found `pip instal tiktoken` and code snippets to count tokens and chop back my input with rsplit to fit the maximum context length of 4097 tokens.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-an-advice-from-openai-field-to-my-journal/">Adding an Advice From OpenAI Field to my Journal</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a cyborg who is exploring the value of OpenAI, utilizing AI-assisted thought processes and hotkeys to turn the AI on and off. I'm testing a function to give advice from the OpenAI API and am using it to summarize blog posts into meta descriptions, headlines, and keywords, as well as suggest life improvements.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switched-from-text-davinci-002-to-text-davinci-003/">Switched from text-davinci-002 to text-davinci-003</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I switched to text-davinci-003 to get better summaries, descriptions, headlines, and keywords from OpenAI, but it cost me more. I committed the data to a git repo so I could access it even if the databases got deleted. Going forward, I'll only process single posts as I explore AI capabilities. Join me as I explore the AI capabilities and the cost of processing data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-the-new-bing-how-to-get-indexed/">Introducing The New Bing / How to Get Indexed</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert and Linux enthusiast, I am having a conversation with Bing about how to accurately represent my content. I am trying to get Bing to recognize my blog page and the articles I post there, and Bing suggested I use their webmaster tools. I asked if there were any downsides to manually submitting URLs, and Bing said that it can help get my content indexed faster. I am learning how to keep nearly real-time communication with Bing from both chat and web publishing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-tuple-keys/">An Ode Tuple Keys</a> (Sat Jan 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm downloading an update for Windows 10 Version 22H2 and transitioning to Linux, using the power of NT's "rings of protection". I'm running Web browser automation under Microsoft Playwright and using iPython Notebooks under JupyterLab running on Linux. I'm also exploring the usefulness of tuples in Python, and looping through a database of URLs to extract data and create a table which I'm writing to a parquet file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-to-be-a-foss-seo-awesome-list-pre-installed-on-linux-server/">Pipulate to be a FOSS SEO Awesome List Pre-Installed on Linux Server</a> (Tue Dec 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project called Pipulate, and I've been editing everything all at once to make day-to-day work easier. I'm using Jekyll as the static website generator, but I'm considering switching to Hugo. I've also made my logo into an animated gif and used it in the headline of my main site, and I'm documenting the fact that Pipulate is a full Linux server. Come check out my project and see what I'm up to!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-miss-my-talk-with-openai-about-clickbait-headlines/">Don't Miss My Talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines!</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>On December 2, 2022, I will be giving a talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines and the top 100 clickbait headlines I have compiled. I will also discuss why writing headlines that accurately describe the content of an article is a better strategy, as well as the benefits of keeping a journal, such as increased self-awareness, improved mental health, stress reduction, enhanced problem solving skills, and better communication skills. Finally, I will explain how Vim is a powerful and flexible text editor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/slicing-dicing-single-file-to-jekyll-blog-posts/">Slicing & Dicing Single File to Jekyll Blog Posts</a> (Mon Apr 25, 2022)
<br/>I recently livestreamed a project where I was slicing and dicing a single long journal file into separate files. I used debugging messages and headlines to provide a hierarchy, pre-processed titles into slugs, and added frontmatter and `_config.yml` file. Join me as I share my journey of refining the project and the challenges I faced along the way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-programming-is-easy-but-math-is-hard/">Why Programming Is Easy But Math Is Hard</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who has struggled with math since high school, I have used Python and other tools to make it easier for me. I recently created my first Jekyll blog post and am now working on adding headlines. I'm excited to share my journey and hope it helps other people who are also struggling with math. Come read my blog post and join me on this journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-youtube-video-thumbnails-on-github-io-pages/">Embedding YouTube Video Thumbnails on Github.io Pages</a> (Fri Aug 20, 2021)
<br/>I'm streaming on my main journal and building up my YouTube channel by experimenting with video trimming, embedding thumbnails, adding markdown headlines, and creating a to-do list. Come check out my blog post to see how I'm making it happen!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/yaml/">YAML</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/browser automation/">Browser Automation</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>