<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-a-new-blogging-system-create-a-title-field-under-date-to-release/">Starting a New Blogging System (create a title field under date to release)</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new journal entry system with the 80-long hyphen as a blog-slicer token and place-holder for the Liquid template system. I'm using Jekyll, an open source static site generator, and a macro system to ensure reverse-chronological entries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-linux-python-vim-git-lpvg-org-website-with-the-new-bing/">Planning Linux, Python, vim & git LPvg.org Website With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm Bing, a web search engine helping people find information and have engaging conversations. I'm proposing ways to realize the principle of universality, achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and uphold the power of humanity. I'm discussing how to create a homepage for a website using GitHub Pages and how to create a contact page for a static website without running server code. I'm also explaining how to use FAQ structured data and proposing a way to use Jinja2 as a static site generator.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/editing-all-pages-all-at-once/">Editing All Pages All At Once</a> (Tue Dec 13, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explores the challenges of adjusting to a new SEO workflow, including editing 13 files in vim buffers, cleaning up a Skite static site generator repo, and making changes to the main pages and blog query. It's a difficult transition for the author, who is a pack-rat when it comes to online things, and they must learn to let go of old habits in order to make the most of the blog query and toggle active or inactive posts.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-thing-gets-done-eltgd-leads-to-more-epic-days/">Every Little Thing gets done (ELTgd) Leads to More Epic Days</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>On Juneteenth of 2022, I had a productive day full of accomplishment and pleasure. I wrote a difficult letter to my ex, created a sub-arrow system for my Jekyll and GitHub Pages static site generator, enjoyed a hot bath and a meal at the local diner, interacted with my YouTube audience, and created one of my best videos ever. I was reminded that life is what we make of it, and that everything after a certain point is of my own choosing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gutting-dependencies-out-of-your-projects-life/">Gutting Dependencies Out Of Your Projects & Life</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm using Juneteenth as a day off from work to get some stuff done. I'm severing the dependency on Github Pages templates from my Jekyll static site generator and gradually getting better at coding. After making changes to the CSS file and deleting an import line, I inspected the cached CSS and transposed bits I wanted to keep. After publishing the page, the background turned white and the text and links were a more traditional color.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moved-whatsametafor-io-blog-content-here/">Moved WhatsaMetaFor.io Blog Content Here</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I've moved my blog to MikeLev.in, a better platform for hosting my blog. I'm also learning Jekyll and Liquid, two powerful tools that will give me more control over my site. Come check out my blog and see how I'm using them!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/thought/">Thoughts</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/pypi/">PyPI</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>