<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/write-python-function-for-blog-previous-next-arrows/">Write Python Function for Blog Previous Next Arrows</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a Python function to create blog navigation arrows. It takes the index position and length of a sequence, as well as a list of tuples containing hrefs and titles, and returns HTML for the prev/next arrows. This is now live on my category pages and I'm ready to add it to my Jekyll `_posts` pages too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-ai-auto-publishing-anything/">Disabling AI Auto-Publishing Anything</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered a problem with Jekyll when trying to produce a list of the 10 most recent posts. To solve this, I used Python to control the list iteration and created a 5 x 20 grid of the top-100 categories on my website. After testing it in Jupyter, I successfully produced a table with the top 100 categories. I also recently switched from Windows 10 to Windows 11 and was able to transfer the 'soul' of the machine, including my system setup.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automatically-log-into-moz-pro-with-playwright-browser-automation/">Automatically Log Into MOZ Pro with Playwright Browser Automation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post will walk you through using Microsoft Playwright's browser automation software to automatically log into MOZ Pro and download Keyword Explorer data for each subdomain. Using asynchronous mode and my standard Chrome automation template, I am logging into the MOZ Pro website and using the Keyword Explorer feature to pull keywords from a given site with the help of the async Python library. Read on to learn how to automate this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/throw-all-the-meat-veggies-into-the-stew-stir-the-blog-vlog/">Throw All The Meat & Veggies Into The Stew & Stir The Blog / Vlog</a> (Fri Jun 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently wrote a blog post about my experience with downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 so I could use LXD Linux containers on WSL Windows Subsystem for Linux. To make my workflow more efficient, I created a vim keyboard macro that generates the site I'm editing and added sites to sites.csv in the skite repo. Read my blog post to find out how this game-changing experience helped me streamline my workflow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bash-script-loading-external-files/">Bash Script Loading External Files</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I've simplified my release system and renamed it blast.sh. This script helps me delete old files, slice blogs, update my vimrc, journal, and mlseo. After that, it publishes my 15 domains for SEO purposes and I'm done! Join me as I dive into the details of this helpful script.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/internet/">Internet</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/frequency/">Frequency</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>