<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/marathon-live-streaming-getting-copilot-working-in-neovim/">Marathon Live Streaming Getting Copilot Working in NeoVim</a> (Tue Mar 28, 2023)
<br/>I successfully got Copilot working in NeoVim by updating the drinkme script, installing vim-plug and the Copilot plug-in from Github, and testing the authentication process. Although I'm done for the night, there are still tests and polish that need to be done. Read about my journey to get Copilot working in NeoVim on my blog.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-linux-graphics-and-systemd-support-takes-priority-over-lxd/">WSL Linux Graphics and Systemd Support Takes Priority Over LXD</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm MikleVin and I recently created a new repository to prioritize getting Linux graphics and SYSTEMD working over LXD Linux Containers in the Windows Subsystem for Linux. Check out my repository 'drinkme' at https://github.com/miklevin/drinkme and stay tuned for my upcoming video to explain these changes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-added-linux-graphics-and-systemd-to-wsl-for-windows-10/">Microsoft Added Linux Graphics and Systemd to WSL for Windows 10</a> (Sun Nov 27, 2022)
<br/>I recently installed Linux graphics and Systemd on Windows 10, and now I'm exploring the aftermath. I'm researching how to make the vGPU accessible and usable, mapping locations and environment variables, and setting up the WAYLAND_DISPLAY and XDG_RUNTIME_DIR. I'm looking into lxdwin script, Levinux/Getonux projects, and lxc config set to configure the jupyter environment. Join me as I explore the aftermath of this installation!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl2lxd-is-now-lxdwin-apt-pip-installs-done-graphics-implemented/">WSL2LXD is now lxdwin, Apt & Pip Installs Done. Graphics Implemented.</a> (Wed Sep 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm feeling productive this morning and I'm on my third great-twenty-eight. I used an open-minded craftsperson's approach to tool selection and use, and after running install.bat, apt_installs.sh, and requirements.txt, I debugged a script and did a full reboot. I'm happy to say I think I nailed it and renamed the repo to lxdwin. Read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/linux-container-under-windows-10-wsl-supporting-graphics/">Linux Container Under Windows 10 WSL Supporting Graphics</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered that it is possible to get Linux graphics working with Linux containers on Windows 10 using VcXsrv. I figured out how to capture the DISPLAY variable from the host Linux and pass it to the container by writing it to a shared file. This technique is similar to activating Python virtual environments, and I'm excited to share my findings with you.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/artificial intelligence/">Artificial Intelligence</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/proprietary/">Proprietary</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>