<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-auto-publish-prevention-when-ai-has-written-fields/">Testing Auto-Publish Prevention When AI Has Written Fields</a> (Sat Apr 29, 2023)
<br/>Test out my new auto-publish prevention system when AI has written fields. I'm doing one release before giving this a title as a control, and making sure the system works. This is a small article release, and I may delete it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/managing-static-vs-dynamic-leads-to-practical-fusion-a-better-you/">Managing Static Vs. Dynamic Leads to Practical Fusion & a Better You</a> (Thu Dec 15, 2022)
<br/>As a parent, I am helping my preteen navigate the transition from childhood to adulthood by encouraging them to observe, ask questions, and narrate their experiences. I am teaching them the importance of both static and dynamic states of being, which are both necessary for growth, from developing atomic energy to the inner workings of our own lives. I am also reflecting on my own journey of self-inspection and self-modification, which I had to do in order to grow and develop during transitional periods.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/b2-or-not-b2-that-is-the-question/">:b2 or not :b2, That Is The Question</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my thoughts and ideas publicly using slicing & dicing, Github Pages, mlseo, and blogslicer for search engine optimization. I'm determined to gut my project Pipulate and make way for it now. Join me on this journey and read my blog post to learn more.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/unique/">Unique</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/motivation/">Motivation</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>