<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cope-thrive-through-ai-induced-existential-crisis/">How To Cope & Thrive Through AI-Induced Existential Crisis</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO specialist, I'm exploring how to cope and thrive in this AI-induced existential crisis. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, vim & git tools and habits to expand my coding capabilities. I'm confronting my fears of AI and learning that it's not a replacement for humans, but a tool to help them. Through this journey, I'm discovering how AI can create new opportunities and make jobs easier and more efficient. Join me on my journey to gain a better understanding.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/general-artificial-intelligence-nas-business-plan/">General Artificial Intelligence NAS Business Plan</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As part of the GAIA NAS team, I am developing a storage device that combines storage solutions and general artificial intelligence capabilities to improve human well-being. GAIA NAS will offer users a reliable, secure, and scalable storage solution, as well as the ability to learn from data, perform tasks, and interact with users in natural ways. With GAIA NAS, I can access my data from anywhere, share it with anyone, back it up automatically, and stream media files seamlessly.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/predicting-the-best-worst-most-likely-things-to-expect-from-ai/">Predicting The Best & Worst Most Likely Things To Expect From AI</a> (Mon Mar 06, 2023)
<br/>I explore the potential of using decentralized distributed tech to give an advantage to the good guys, and how AI can be used for the greater good. I discuss the ethical and social challenges of pitting AIs in competition with each other, and provide five examples of possible headline-making scenarios. To create a positive perspective on the use of AI technology, I created a top 10 list of how it can improve life for everyone, from renewable energy solutions to enhancing healthcare delivery and education.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/october-first-no-gamma-burst-so-far-so-good/">October First No Gamma Burst... So Far So Good.</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>As I move to New York City on October 1, 2022, I'm determined to make the most of the opportunities, no matter the cost of living. Despite any filter events that have come my way, I'm staying positive and hopeful for the future. I'm grateful for my survival and want to reach a high level of prosperity. Join me as I document my journey to success in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-if-my-life-were-just-beginning-now/">What If My Life Were Just Beginning Now?</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have gained a lot of wisdom over the years. From understanding my likes and dislikes and the role of major events in my life, to recognizing the importance of financial security, I have learned a lot. I regret not taking up Python sooner, and I'm grateful for the opportunities Unix has given me. Despite the ups and downs, I wouldn't change my path and am content with how things have turned out. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey and</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/version/">Version</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/ufo/">UFO</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>