<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/having-the-confidence-to-diverge-from-nbdev-file-naming-convention/">Having The Confidence To Diverge From nbdev File Naming Convention</a> (Sun Jun 19, 2022)
<br/>I recently revamped my content release system and made changes to my .vimrc file, including replacing the blast.sh bash file with a new core.py file renamed to skite.py. Additionally, I deleted the blogslicer repo and removed it from PyPI. I'm pleased with my progress and will be writing a new article about it - come read all about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/education-of-the-woogle-bug/">Education Of The Woogle Bug</a> (Sat Jun 18, 2022)
<br/>Yesterday was a difficult day, but I'm determined to move forward. I'm rewriting my content management system and conditioning my mind to be kind and gentle. I'm supplementing my income while getting closer to my child, and using various tools to debug and fix a problem with a script. I wrote a program to create websites with Python and I'm using the blogslicer program to create blogs for multiple websites.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/b2-or-not-b2-that-is-the-question/">:b2 or not :b2, That Is The Question</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my thoughts and ideas publicly using slicing & dicing, Github Pages, mlseo, and blogslicer for search engine optimization. I'm determined to gut my project Pipulate and make way for it now. Join me on this journey and read my blog post to learn more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-command-line-argument-support-to-jupyter-notebook/">Adding Command-Line Argument Support to Jupyter Notebook</a> (Thu Apr 28, 2022)
<br/>I have added command-line argument support to my Jupyter Notebook using the Python standard library argparse. I have coded up a .py file and tested it successfully, and am now transplanting it into blogslicer, creating functions for displaying headings, and using dateutil and slugify modules. I wrote a script to slice and dice my blog posts into the correct format for Jekyll and incorporated it into my regular publishing release script. I made a change to my world</li>
<li><a href="/blog/turning-repo-into-nbdev-project/">Turning Repo into nbdev Project</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I created a GitHub repo for my project, blogslicer, and connected it to my local directory. After editing the settings.ini file, I moved and renamed the notebook into the repo, added the necessary cells and comments for nbdev, and attempted to publish the project. Finally, I altered pythonically.com to not use index.md as the journal. Read my blog post to learn how I did it!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/github-io/">Github.io</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/draft/">Drafts</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>