<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/left-is-the-past-and-right-is-the-future-right-blog-arrows/">Left is The Past and Right is The Future, Right? (Blog Arrows)</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the beauty and logic of arrow navigation. It can take some finagling to get it right, but it's a great 80/20-rule solution. With a configurable option, I'm able to make it so that the 'past' is left, and the 'future' is right - perfect for website navigation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-all-openai-completion-calls-to-one-function/">Moving All OpenAI Completion Calls to One Function</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>This post outlines the process of moving OpenAI Completion calls from many functions into to one function. It explains the reasoning behind the decision, the 80/20-rule solution, and the resulting changes. I completed the changes and is now ready to test the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recapturing-that-old-force-of-nature-feeling/">Recapturing That Old Force of Nature Feeling</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to recapture the old feeling of being a Force of Nature I had when younger by harnessing the power of AI-assisted coding. Learn the tricks of using Python and MermaidJS diagrams. Get to the next level with story-telling on your Powerpoint-like decks for MOZ.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-80-20-rule-means-front-loading-the-big-wins/">The 80/20-rule Means Front-loading The Big Wins</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>Ready to make big improvements in your life? I'm sharing my experience on how to use the 80/20-rule and front-load the big wins. Learn how to organize your environment and make the most of your time.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moved-1-long-page-version-of-journal-md-to-drafts/">Moved 1-long-page version of journal.md to `_drafts`</a> (Sat Apr 29, 2023)
<br/>I have moved the 1-long-page version of my journal.md file to the `_drafts` folder, allowing me to keep posts unpublished without giving them a yaml title. This is a great way to keep posts out of Github publishing space, while still allowing them to be sliced & diced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/levinux-pipulate-yamlesque/">Levinux, Pipulate & YAMLesque</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I'm striving for financial independence and using the 80/20-rule and OpenAI's Codex AI to create a plan of action to help me reach my goals. I'm breaking out of my old habits and focusing on inventing and building in the real and text-based world with Linux, Python, vim & git. I'm taking baby-steps to create a life of abundance and order.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rotating-logo-returns-and-key-advice-in-life/">Rotating Logo Returns and Key Advice in Life</a> (Sat Dec 17, 2022)
<br/>Today is the day to put my rotating logo back on the homepage with a bit of animation. I believe that life is a delicate balance of pushing past the hard bits, thinking clearly, journaling, using the 80/20-rule, and avoiding rabbit-holes. We must also be aware of the false dichotomies that label people and the power of those who oppose peace. Times are changing and the public is being held down, but I'm confident that we can break through.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-a-tiktok-script/">Working on a TikTok Script</a> (Thu Sep 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm an infotech carpenter teaching people how to become an Information Age Samurai by mastering the right skillset and toolset. I'm providing a script to install Jupyter on Linux, and a guide to help people navigate the dense infotech forest. I'm also sharing my experience to help others find their way in life, and I'm learning to plan my recovery from distractions as a sort of performance-art.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-video-series-that-drives-message-home/">Planning a Video Series That Drives Message Home</a> (Thu Aug 25, 2022)
<br/>This video series will be a tutorial on how to move away from Microsoft and Apple systems and will explore topics such as Windows 10, WSL2, LXD Containers, and programming projects. I'll also discuss the evolution of an idea, the pursuit of craft, the 80/20-rule, and how to do what you love for money. Join me on this journey to reach a wider audience and learn how to make the switch from Microsoft and Apple systems.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/web-development-is-for-chumps-try-linux-services-instead/">Web Development is For Chumps. Try Linux Services, Instead.</a> (Sat May 28, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I'm here to tell you that web development isn't the best way to spend your time. Instead, Linux services are a better option, as they follow the 80/20-rule. With web development, however, the 80/20-rule is flipped, and it becomes the 20/80-Rule. I'll explain why this is the case, and how the hard part is actually putting a user interface on it and dealing with the other 80%.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-s-most-broken/">What's Most Broken?</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>As a daily reminder, I have three rules I live by: identify what's most broken, focus on where I can get the biggest bang for the buck, and keep track of what plates need to be spun. I also try to stay mindful of the 80/20-rule and Rabbit-Hole evaluations, and pay attention to any poetry that comes to mind. Quasi Joe D'Ohhh is a reminder to stay vigilant and not be fooled twice. Read my blog post to find out</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/wsl/">WSL</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/rabbit-holes/">Rabbit Holes</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>