<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-s-execute-command-doesn-t-even-show-output-in-neovim-of-m-s/">NeoVim's :execute Command Doesn't Even Show Output In NeoVim of ^M's</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>As a blogger, I'm debating whether to refactor my blogging system or to just use another keyboard shortcut from NeoVim. I asked Bing how to execute shell commands from NeoVim and found out that the :execute command doesn't even show output. Bing suggested using the `:terminal` command, mapping it to a keyboard shortcut, or using `vim.api.nvim_command` to execute a command. After realizing that this means my old macros look a little messed up</li>
<li><a href="/blog/write-a-linux-scheduler-service-in-python/">Write a Linux Scheduler Service in Python</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a lightweight Linux Scheduler Service in Python that uses the 'schedule' package to define and execute Python functions. I'm exploring ways to manage files and keep scheduled tasks in separate folders. In this blog post, I'll be taking you through the process of setting up a precursor to a data pipelining video. Read on to learn how to create a powerful, yet lightweight, scheduling system!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-the-lxd-lxc-command-line-api/">Figuring Out The LXD/LXC Command-line API</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>As a Linux user, I recently received a notice that my LXC container is unsupported. To learn the LXD/LXC command-line API, I discovered the command `lxc exec instance_name -- command` to execute commands in the LXD image, `lxc list` to view containers, `lxc start foo` to start one, and `lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu` to log.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/education-of-the-woogle-bug/">Education Of The Woogle Bug</a> (Sat Jun 18, 2022)
<br/>Yesterday was a difficult day, but I'm determined to move forward. I'm rewriting my content management system and conditioning my mind to be kind and gentle. I'm supplementing my income while getting closer to my child, and using various tools to debug and fix a problem with a script. I wrote a program to create websites with Python and I'm using the blogslicer program to create blogs for multiple websites.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/computer/">Computer</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/action/">Actions</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>