<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/git-rebase-i-root-vs-git-init-anew/">`git rebase -i --root` vs. `git init` anew</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I attempted to learn how to use the `git rebase` command to clean up my git history and speed up my repository. I discovered on big repos with lots of issues, it's easier to just `git init` and do the old swaparoo with a new repo. Also explore philosophical questions about existence and the relative importance of things, and relationship to retiring an old git repo and starting anew.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/which-are-the-least-credible-voices-in-the-ufo-uap-space/">Which Are The Least Credible Voices In The UFO / UAP Space?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>This article explores the UFO community and examines the evidence, credibility, and profiteering of people like Kenneth Arnold, Bob Lazar, George Knapp, and John Lear. I share my personal experience with a secret program to investigate UFOs and discuss who may be the most likely fakers and profiteers in the UFO community. Read on to learn more and ask me any questions you have about these people.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-that-foss-seo-book/">Start That FOSS SEO Book</a> (Sun Jan 29, 2023)
<br/>On January 29, 2023, I committed to writing a FOSS SEO Book. I'm learning how to use Twitter to best resonate my message and build an audience. I've started the project on the URL https://twitter.com/miklevin/status/1619125800477020160 and I'm dedicated to seeing it through. Follow my journey and join the discussion!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/connecting-the-dots-ain-t-easy/">Connecting The Dots Ain't Easy</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm trying to learn how to connect the dots and it's not easy. I'm taking a different approach: instead of drawing first, I'm learning how to look. Join me on my journey to figure out how to connect the dots and start seeing the bigger picture.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/mlseo/">mlseo</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/image/">image</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>