<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-zero-fuel-solar-nomadic-lifestyle-plus-homeschooling/">A Zero Fuel Solar Nomadic Lifestyle Plus Homeschooling</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>I'm planning the ultimate road trip for 2023 and I'm excited to explore the United States and Canada! I'm looking into a nomadic lifestyle with solar energy as my fuel source and researching solar generators, Toyota Prius Prime, Aptera, and ElectraMeccanica's SOLO. I'm also homeschooling my child and teaching them about renewable energy, sustainable living, and problem-solving. With this curriculum, I'm sure to have an unforgettable experience!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/science-experiments-for-12-year-olds/">Science Experiments for 12 Year Olds</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>Bing helped me find experiments for a 12 year old to conduct. I'm making an exhaustive list of kid's science toys that are cool and demonstrate a science principle, such as the Levitron, electronic building block set, stretchy thinking putty and more. Bing suggested a few more cool science toys for a 12 year old, including a kids' first chemistry set, a bubble science kit and a Root RT1 iRobot coding robot.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/desperately-seeking-a-better-intro-to-math-science-a-pythonic-one/">Desperately Seeking a Better Intro to Math & Science. A Pythonic One?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is looking to learn math and science but doesn't have a strong background in math, I have been searching for ways to learn math in a way that nurtures a love for the beauty and truth of math. I recently discovered how to use Python code to represent and manipulate basic concepts from Algebra, Geometry, and Trigonometry. I also explored some famous and easy to reproduce experiments in science, such as the two-slit experiment and cloud chambers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-rigid-geometric-weather-balloons-possible/">Are Rigid Geometric Weather Balloons Possible?</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I recently discussed the mysterious 486958 Arrokoth, an object encountered by NASA's New Horizons mission. I explored possible scenarios, including the possibility of an alien spacecraft or probe, but ultimately concluded that the natural explanation is much more plausible and consistent with current scientific knowledge. I believe it is important to remember to not confuse science with speculation and imagination. Join me to explore the fascinating possibilities of Arrokoth and the implications of our discoveries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-an-seo-from-icky-guy-to-ikigai-in-20-short-years/">Being An SEO: From Icky Guy to Ikigai in 20 Short Years</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>After considering a career in science, I chose to pursue SEO due to its data-driven nature. When Google stopped passing on keyword data, I was forced to switch to statistical models, which I was unprepared for. After years of feeling icky, I am now looking for a career that aligns with my values and interests. I am excited to start a new project which involves reading emails and creating a majordomo-like program using the string method splitlines and join.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-two-maxwell-s-of-light-you-can-t-take-it-with-you/">The Two Maxwell's of Light / You Can't Take It With You</a> (Sun Sep 18, 2022)
<br/>Reflecting on the power of wisdom over material possessions, I explore the mysteries of science such as non-locality and the particle/wave duality of light particles first established by James Clerk Maxwell and Michael Faraday in the 1800s. Max Planck's discovery of the planck-unit further perplexed us, and I express my hope to better explain this to my child in the future.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/education/">Education</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/dependency/">Dependencies</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>