<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-diddle-diddle-now-neovim-s-my-fiddle/">Hey Diddle Diddle, Now NeoVim's My Fiddle</a> (Sun Apr 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting up macros in my NeoVim text editor to turn my journal entries into web pages. After 10 years of using this text editor, I'm vlogging the process and exploring new habits. As an advocate for Linux, Python, vim, and git, I still have to pay a Microsoft tax for tools like Github Pro, Github CoPilot, and Microsoft 365. I'm currently formatting the output of a new dice.py file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/one-penguin-turns-and-says-to-the-other-you-know-it-s-funny/">One Penguin Turns and Says to The Other, You Know It's Funny...</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm an SEO, and I'm reflecting on the incredible technology that has allowed us to evolve over time. I'm exploring the impact of GNU licenses and the contributions of Ken Thompson, Linux Torvalds and Richard Matthew Stallman, as well as the implications of artificial intelligence. I'm also reminiscing about my journey from Commodore to Scala to Conners Communications, and my creation of HitTail, to my current position in New York City.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-start-an-ai-novel-about-dystopizon-with-chatgpt/">Let's Start an AI-Novel About Dystopizon with ChatGPT</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO living in New York City. I'm exploring the use of ChatGPT to create a real-time journal of a person's life by setting up a schedule and prompts with Python. My goal is to find a way to communicate with someone without being monitored by the corporation. To do this, I suggest using a smartwatch and gradually building trust with the user. Come explore how I'm using ChatGPT to pursue autonomy and freedom.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-rise-of-bff-seo-best-foot-forward-search-engine-optimization/">The Rise of BFF SEO (Best Foot Forward Search Engine Optimization)</a> (Sun Dec 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO specialist from New York City. I noticed the decline of long-tail SEO and the rise of Best Foot Forward (BFF) SEO and was one of the first to adopt this approach. I quickly became known as the "King of BFF SEO" and continued to innovate and help my clients achieve success. Eventually, my contributions helped BFF SEO become the industry standard. Read this blog post to learn more about my journey and how I changed the SEO landscape.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/october-first-no-gamma-burst-so-far-so-good/">October First No Gamma Burst... So Far So Good.</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>As I move to New York City on October 1, 2022, I'm determined to make the most of the opportunities, no matter the cost of living. Despite any filter events that have come my way, I'm staying positive and hopeful for the future. I'm grateful for my survival and want to reach a high level of prosperity. Join me as I document my journey to success in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/refresh-your-mind-with-the-lxd-api/">Refresh Your Mind With The LXD API</a> (Mon Jul 18, 2022)
<br/>Recently, I moved back to New York City and have been struggling both emotionally and financially. To thrive in tomorrow's world, I'm learning the LXD API to create containers and refresh my mind. With the lxc command, I can easily create a new container, even adding a user and password if I want. I'm amazed at how quickly I can create a container, and can't wait to see what the future holds.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-stories-leading-up-to-linux-python-vim-git/">My Stories Leading Up To Linux, Python, vim & git</a> (Fri Apr 22, 2022)
<br/>Growing up with people who meant me harm, I didn't realize it until much later. I eventually saw my Uncle Bob as a war-era pilot and a slumlord, and I decided to take control of my life. I moved to New York City with my then-spouse, only to face a costly eviction and a failed marriage. I soon realized that everything in life is strategy and war, and I had to take over my dad's check cashing business and rescue my mom from</li>
<li><a href="/blog/time-to-tell-my-stories/">Time To Tell My Stories</a> (Tue Aug 24, 2021)
<br/>Mike Levin, a SEO from New York City, moved to the Poconos during the pandemic and has been telecommuting ever since. In order to make sure his stories last forever, he's using search engine optimization and has just registered a new domain, linuxpythonvimgit. Learn more about Mike's journey and his determination to make his stories last.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/text-editor/">Text Editor</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/artificial-intelligence/">Artificial Intelligence</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>