<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/recapturing-that-old-force-of-nature-feeling/">Recapturing That Old Force of Nature Feeling</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to recapture the old feeling of being a Force of Nature I had when younger by harnessing the power of AI-assisted coding. Learn the tricks of using Python and MermaidJS diagrams. Get to the next level with story-telling on your Powerpoint-like decks for MOZ.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adapting-my-drinkme-for-linux-pipulate-script-for-macs/">Adapting My DrinkMe for Linux Pipulate Script for Macs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm adapting my DrinkMe Linux Pipulate Script for Macs, so I'm using a Linux VM on a Mac for the most precise code execution. To make this easy, I'm using Canonical's MultiPass, which turns on virtualization and sets up a working instance of Ubuntu. I'm also using Apple Bonjour's mDNS to map host ports to the VM ports, and I've updated the install script to ensure Linux graphics work in headful mode.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/auto-complete-a-k-a-intellisense-is-your-most-dangerous-dependency/">Auto-Complete a.k.a. Intellisense Is Your Most Dangerous Dependency</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>As a coder, I'm warning people about the dangers of becoming too dependent on auto-complete (Intellisense). It's important to learn to code without relying on proprietary features and data-sets, or else you'll be left behind when the tools inevitably change. If you become too reliant on Intellisense, you won't be able to code without it, and you won't be able to keep up with the changing technology.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sub-linux-sub-love-so-learn/">Sub-Linux Sub-Love So-Learn</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I've been on YouTube since 2006, and now I'm embracing free and open source software. I'm encouraging people to escape Windows, Mac and proprietary software, and to write a daily journal in vim. I'm talking more to myself and sharing some of my personal and proprietary information, but with a positive spin. I'm taking advice from Rafiki and learning from the past to improve my future. Join me on this journey and discover how to make the most of free and open source software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sub-linux-sub-love-so-learn/">Sub-Linux Sub-Love So-Learn</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I've been on YouTube since 2006, and now I'm embracing free and open source software. I'm encouraging people to escape Windows, Mac and proprietary software, and to write a daily journal in vim. I'm talking more to myself and sharing some of my personal and proprietary information, but with a positive spin. I'm taking advice from Rafiki and learning from the past to improve my future. Join me on this journey and discover how to make the most of free and open source software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-you-still-really-need-windows-switching-to-linux-in-2022/">Do You Still Really Need Windows? Switching To Linux in 2022</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As tech becomes more and more essential to our daily lives, I'm discussing the importance of understanding generic tech, and why Windows is becoming obsolete. I'm exploring why Linux is the way to go, and why using containers under Linux is the best way to future-proof your work. I'm also discussing why Docker should be used from Windows and why it's important. Join me as I explain why it's essential to keep up with tech trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/say-the-magic-words-open-terminal/">Say The Magic Words: Open Terminal!</a> (Sat Jun 11, 2022)
<br/>I learned the French Drop finger magic trick from my camp counselor Mike Silver at Science Camp Watonka when I was 12 years old. Now, I'm introducing a new skill called the French Drop and Miss. Direction, closely aligned with Unix/Linux. This skill is future-proof, obsolescence resistant, and immune to disruption. It's important to not solely depend on GUIs and to focus on Unix/Linux terminal.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jekyll-include-tags-for-github-io-youtube-embedding/">Jekyll include tags for Github.io YouTube Embedding</a> (Fri Aug 20, 2021)
<br/>I'm developing new habits to become an expert in technical moves and live-streaming. To make sure nothing proprietary is shared, I'm setting up hotkeys and testing embedding YouTube videos in my Github.io pages. I'm also creating mikelevinseo.com as a place to write about topics instead of my main journal. Click through to read more about my journey.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/nodejs/">NodeJS</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/focus/">Focus</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>