<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/what-do-you-do-when-you-approach-a-new-api/">What do you do when you approach a new API?</a> (Mon Mar 20, 2023)
<br/>As I explore a new API, I have many questions to answer. I need to know the protocols, endpoints, versions, methods, login process, API reference guide, client libraries, batch requests, paged responses, quota handling, and more. I'm taking you through my journey to get the answers I need. Join me in exploring this new API!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-side-bar-makes-default-search-set-to-google-inconsequential/">Bing Side Bar Makes Default Search Set To Google Inconsequential</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>Discover how I recently updated my browser to the newest version and found Bing integrated into the upper-right corner. I was curious to see if I could use it beyond my daily quota, and found out it's more about rate than queries per day. I activated the side-panel to see what it looks like and tried it out - read my blog post to find out what I discovered!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recovering-old-laptops-for-video-production-purposes/">Recovering Old Laptops For Video Production Purposes</a> (Sun Sep 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a video tutorial to show how to upgrade WSL1 and reset Windows 11 to Windows 10, using a laptop with a version lower than 18917. To ensure accuracy, I'm researching Wikipedia pages and downloading Windows Win10_1809Oct_v2_English_x64.iso. Join me on my journey as I work to make this video and worry about ruining it with a system update!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-jupyter-notebook-to-pip-installable-package-in-one-go/">From Jupyter Notebook to pip Installable Package In One Go</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>Join me as I livecast the process of creating and releasing a Python package from a Jupyter Notebook. I'll be using the desktop version of JupyterLab and taking you through every step of the process. Don't miss out - tune in now!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/security/">Security</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/opportunity/">Opportunities</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>