<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/designing-yamlesque-post-generator-api/">Designing YAMLesque Post Generator API</a> (Sat Apr 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm amazed by how things just work. I'm using 80-hyphens as a parser token to make my front-matter handling more slicey and yaml-like. I've written a powerful function called chop_chop that takes a file path and returns a tuple with 3 positions. Occasionally I'll do one-off's in Jupyter Notebooks. I'm excited to see the results of my work and hope you will be too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-a-new-blogging-system-create-a-title-field-under-date-to-release/">Starting a New Blogging System (create a title field under date to release)</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new journal entry system with the 80-long hyphen as a blog-slicer token and place-holder for the Liquid template system. I'm using Jekyll, an open source static site generator, and a macro system to ensure reverse-chronological entries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-svg-images-in-markdown-cells-of-jupyter-notebooks/">Embedding SVG Images in Markdown Cells of Jupyter Notebooks</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explains how I wrote a Python program that uses the base64 module to encode an SVG image file, generates an HTML img tag with the encoded data as the src attribute, and outputs the HTML img tag as a string. This allows the image to be displayed properly in a markdown cell of a Jupyter Notebook, making it easy to reference the original file. Read on to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-an-seo-from-icky-guy-to-ikigai-in-20-short-years/">Being An SEO: From Icky Guy to Ikigai in 20 Short Years</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>After considering a career in science, I chose to pursue SEO due to its data-driven nature. When Google stopped passing on keyword data, I was forced to switch to statistical models, which I was unprepared for. After years of feeling icky, I am now looking for a career that aligns with my values and interests. I am excited to start a new project which involves reading emails and creating a majordomo-like program using the string method splitlines and join.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-python-pandas-iloc-interface-explained-for-the-befuddled/">The Python Pandas .iloc Interface Explained For The Befuddled</a> (Fri Dec 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my knowledge of how to use Pandas, a data manipulation tool, to select columns from a DataFrame by using its name or the .loc or .iloc interfaces. I'll explain how to use slices to specify row and column ranges, how to use a colon to select all rows, and why the Pandas API has chosen to drop the use of square-brackets for slices.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/value/">Value</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/publish/">Publish</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>