<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/notebook-based-browser-automation-with-nbdev/">Notebook-based Browser Automation With NBDev</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a journal to document my journey of improving my life with NBDev. NBDev makes writing code easier and more organized, and it's a great improvement over VSCode's Jupyter Notebook extension. I had some trouble shooting a video with OBS, but the nbdev_export worked well. Follow my journey as I document my successes and learn from my mistakes!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-a-systemd-service-with-chatgpt/">Making a SystemD Service With ChatGPT</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>I'm writing a systemd service that uses GNU screen to run a python script in the background. In this blog post, I share the details of the service, including the command to be run, the user account to run the service as, and the environment variables to be set. I also explain the meaning of the word "majordomo" and how to create a nbdev version 2 project in a folder called majordaemo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/nbdev-makes-py-file-extractions-from-notebooks/">nbdev Makes .py-file Extractions From Notebooks</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to master Google Photos through the API. To do this, I'm introducing nbdev2 and using Linux mounts to synchronize my WSL Linux ~/data directory on my Windows laptop with my ~/data directory on the NAS LXD server. As a member of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), I'm proud to be part of an organization that promotes excellence in scientific research and works to advance science for the betterment of humanity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-practice-folder-created/">Pipulate Practice Folder Created</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm pushing myself to take the next steps in the Pipulate project, focusing on collaboration and best practices. I'm exploring ideas to use AI to edit my YouTube videos, setting up the Pipulate repo and practice folder, and activating scheduling under a systemd service. I'm using nbdev version 2 and OhAwf with the addition of the run_console feature. All the necessary software can be found on the Pipulate Software page. Come explore the possibilities with me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share how I tested Ubuntu 20.04 to see if I could easily install LXD. I found that Ubuntu 18.04 is the easier option, since it comes pre-installed with LXD and allows you to quickly get up and running. I also discuss my preference for local services over cloud resources, my advocacy for Linux and my blue-collar mechanic approach to tech literacy. Finally, I suggest JupyterLab-Desktop as a great way to learn Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/trying-to-get-python-sbin-commands-from-nbdev/">Trying to get Python sbin commands from nbdev</a> (Thu May 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm using my experience as a former mechanical engineer and current search engine optimization expert to help my homeschooled child find the right path. I'm re-implementing my blog slice & dice system with Python, JupyterLabs 3.3.4-2, and setuptools setup.py to make a command-line interface (CLI) command. With this jigsaw puzzle approach, I'm hoping to make the most of my time and help my child.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/turning-repo-into-nbdev-project/">Turning Repo into nbdev Project</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I created a GitHub repo for my project, blogslicer, and connected it to my local directory. After editing the settings.ini file, I moved and renamed the notebook into the repo, added the necessary cells and comments for nbdev, and attempted to publish the project. Finally, I altered pythonically.com to not use index.md as the journal. Read my blog post to learn how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-importance-of-digital-housekeeping/">The Importance of Digital Housekeeping</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm trying to get my mlseo project up and running, and I recently had a discussion with my wife about the importance of digital housekeeping. I'm taking steps to reduce daily stress and increase happiness, like creating a github folder, deleting unnecessary items, and taking advantage of AeroSnap. I'm also trying to upgrade my JupyterLab and wondering if the desktop version will be upgraded too. I'm currently on Jupyter 3.3.2-2, but</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
<li><a href="/blog/okay-i-m-finally-keeping-audiences-in-mind/">Okay, I'm Finally Keeping Audiences In Mind</a> (Thu Apr 7, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating journal entries for an audience, with the help of WhatsaMetaFor.io and the mlseo package. I'm using metaphors such as the 80/20 rule and rabbit hole evaluations to stay focused and productive. I recently took a risk and explored the nbdev rabbit hole, which led me to create a Github repository and a script to prepare my project for release. Join me on my journey and read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-nbdev/">Testing nbdev</a> (Thu Feb 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm an SEO with over 20 years of experience, and I'm learning the nbdev library. I've set up the settings.ini file and tested out nbdev_build_libs, and I'm now creating a 00_core.ipynb file. I'm making sure to record the dependencies and to avoid using the "black" uncompromising code formatter in iPhone Carnets. Join me as I share my journey of learning nbdev and how I'm adapting</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-mlseo-pip-installable/">Making mlseo pip installable</a> (Wed Feb 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm using mlseo as a pip installable module to get the process of making packages into my fingers. I'm creating a package called mlseo which will include my latest techniques for pulling data from Google Analytics and Search Console. I'm setting up the settings.ini file and extracting the packages, and I'm following the nbdev instructions to install and create a Github personal access token. Come follow my journey and learn how to set up your own mlseo package!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/notebook/">Notebook</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/google-analytics/">Google Analytics</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>