<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-first-version-of-install-scripts-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl/">Writing First Version of Install Scripts for Jupyter on LXD on WSL</a> (Fri Sep 09, 2022)
<br/>I'm helping people become more independent of desktop software and be able to use Linux terminal for their day-to-day tasks. To do this, I set up a new environment on LXD on WSL, trimmed my public Github repos, and created a new repo with an install script. I'm also crafting a message for my public website that will appeal to people in general and capture their attention. Come and learn how to become more independent and use Linux terminal for your daily tasks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-you-still-really-need-windows-switching-to-linux-in-2022/">Do You Still Really Need Windows? Switching To Linux in 2022</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As tech becomes more and more essential to our daily lives, I'm discussing the importance of understanding generic tech, and why Windows is becoming obsolete. I'm exploring why Linux is the way to go, and why using containers under Linux is the best way to future-proof your work. I'm also discussing why Docker should be used from Windows and why it's important. Join me as I explain why it's essential to keep up with tech trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-11-is-more-like-windows-il-for-it-s-linux/">Windows 11 is more like Windows Il (for It's Linux)</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>Get ready to take the plunge into the world of Linux and Unix-based systems with Windows 11! I'm stubbornly staying on Windows 10 for now, but by enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux and the Hypervisor, I can still experience the move-to-Linux experience Microsoft has planned for us. With the help of Steve Jobs and Lennart Poettering, I can run Linux Terminal sessions under WSL2 and even upgrade my instance to Linux Containers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/new-container-station-lxd-ubuntu-18-04-image-and-ssh-server-install/">New Container Station LXD Ubuntu 18.04 Image and SSH Server Install</a> (Mon Jul 25, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up a Container Station LXD Ubuntu 18.04 image and SSH server on my Windows 10 or 11 machine. I'll get Linux Terminal running under Windows Subsystem for Linux / WSL, then get LXD containerization running. I'll create a container that accesses my main local folders and feels like home, and make this Linux container able to access a "network drive" for data. Finally, I'll reproduce this container to make it easy for others to set up their own.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-ll-just-put-this-in-my-usr-local-sbin/">I'll Just Put This In My /usr/local/sbin/</a> (Sat Jun 18, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed my journal from .txt to .md to be compatible with my new content management system. I'm excited to have discovered this system which allows me to back up my system customizations with a vim repo, and to edit all files listed in a csv file at once. I'm now sharing this with the world - join me to learn how to work this way and make the most of your system!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/desktop/">Desktop</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/github-io/">Github.io</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>