<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-chat-with-chatgpt-about-the-cancel-culture-full-scroll-browser-snapshots/">A Chat with ChatGPT About the Cancel Culture & Full-scroll Browser Snapshots</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I discuss the potential of using AI at home with now cheap GPUs, exploring the improved efficiency, enhanced security, better health monitoring, and entertainment and education it can provide. Additionally, I explore potential ways to make money by promoting the ideas and benefits of AI at home, such as through affiliate marketing, advertising, consulting, and e-commerce. I also provide a code example of how to use Puppeteer or Playwright to capture the full vertical scroll.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cluster-keywords-from-google-suggest-api/">How To Cluster Keywords From Google Suggest API</a> (Sat Feb 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring all the amazing features Google Photos has to offer, from converting HEIC to JPG to downloading, editing videos, and more. To come up with SEO-friendly names for my project, I wrote code to cluster keywords into groups and created a dictionary mapping each keyword to its group. I also wrote a function to find the most common two-word combination for each group and mapped that to the group name, creating a csv file with the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-to-ideate-the-idea-capture-device/">Starting to Ideate the Idea Capture Device</a> (Fri Jan 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to come up with a creative way to capture all of my ideas, so I recently looked into using Python to read emails and create an idea capture machine. This got me thinking of the song John Henry, and how he worked so hard that he broke his poor heart. I'm now on a mission to find a way to capture my ideas and explore the world.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automating-2fa-web-login-via-microsoft-playwright/">Automating 2FA Web Login via Microsoft Playwright</a> (Mon Jan 09, 2023)
<br/>After researching options, I decided to create a service to check if I still had web-based authentication. I then found the PyPi Authenticator project which allowed me to automate 2FA from the command line. After a long day, I was able to get it working and move on to the next project. Come read my story to learn how I solved my authentication problem!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/send-email-with-file-attachment-from-python/">Send Email With File Attachment From Python</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>I wrote code to enhance the sendemail.py program to include HTML and an image attachment, as well as a zipped file. I then created a program to schedule the sendmail.py file to run every 10 seconds, 5 seconds, and 1 minute, sending an email with the attached file. Read my blog post to learn more about how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-sending-email-in-jupyter-to-sending-email-in-linux-service/">From Sending Email in Jupyter to Sending Email in Linux Service</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning Zawinski's Law, Python's SMTP library, and systemd. I'm using JupyterLab to show how to work with mail-from and mail-to files, move them into a Linux container pulse folder, and create a sendmail.py file. Come read my blog post to find out how I'm testing my work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sending-emails-with-python-through-smtp/">Sending Emails With Python Through SMTP</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently created a video tutorial on how to send emails with Python. I demonstrated how to use a Python list comprehension for carriage returns and linefeeds, as well as two text files for the sender's and recipient's email addresses. I also showed how to log into the server, write the message body, and use the sendmail function to send the email. Click through to learn how to write code to send emails with Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-blogging-system-is-now-my-weekly-report-system-too/">My Blogging System Is Now My Weekly Report System Too</a> (Sat May 07, 2022)
<br/>I have created a system for writing weekly reports that is similar to how I write blog posts. I have set up the necessary files, scripts, and repository, and tested the release. I encountered a problem with the git push, but I was able to create a blog post, move it to my Github private repo, and render the markdown into HTML. Now I have a system in place to make the process flow with my vimminess!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/sqlitedict/">SqliteDict</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/message/">Message</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>