<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/vlogigng-from-bing-and-vim-to-youtube-and-github-pages/">Vlogigng from Bing and vim to YouTube and Github Pages</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>I've been blogging and vlogging since 2007, sharing my thoughts and ideas without worrying about editing or technical matters. I use YouTube and blogging to express myself and get feedback, and I don't edit my videos for views. I write and publish my work in vim, and use Bing ChatBot to format it in markdown. Join me on my journey and read my work to get insight into my ideas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-a-better-place-to-blog-than-twitter/">This is a better place to blog than Twitter</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As I explore different blogging platforms, I'm learning that true automation is an illusion. I'm looking for cheaper options with less tech liability, while still remembering the debt I owe computers after being stung twice. Join me on my journey to find the perfect blogging platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reworking-site/">Reworking Site</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on my website today, using SimpleCSS for a new look. I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, Git and Jekyll skills to create a static page generator system. Testing out the Jekyll include system to create secondary navigation buttons, and considering externalizing the primary nav. Plus, two headers and lowercase versions of categories for my blogging. Come and join me on my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/choosing-best-css-framework-for-github-pages-and-jekyll/">Choosing Best CSS Framework For Github Pages and Jekyll</a> (Mon Aug 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a CSS framework that provides a modern look, is search-friendly, has been around the longest, and allows me to produce clean, vanilla HTML code. After considering Bootstrap, Foundation, Bulma, Semantic, and UIkit, I decided to go with Foundation because it doesn't require btn classes. I activated lpvg.org on Github pages, created a `_layouts` folder and default.html file, and reminded myself to take baby steps.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/templatizing-google-analytics-measurement-id-in-jekyll-github-pages/">Templatizing Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID in Jekyll Github Pages</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I have developed a system using Jekyll and Liquid template language to templatize the Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID for my websites. To keep track of them, I wrote Python scripts to parse through the lines in sites.txt and create a `_config.yml` file for each website. With this system, I have a master list of my sites and a quick way to update the information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-blog-titles-for-filenames/">Using Blog Titles for Filenames</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I made great progress on a blog slicing and dicing system. I managed to maintain my blogging format while also figuring out the title stuff. I now have `_counter_` posts, each with a unique filename based on the post title, as well as the title, layout, categories, and slug. Come read more to learn how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-programming-is-easy-but-math-is-hard/">Why Programming Is Easy But Math Is Hard</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who has struggled with math since high school, I have used Python and other tools to make it easier for me. I recently created my first Jekyll blog post and am now working on adding headlines. I'm excited to share my journey and hope it helps other people who are also struggling with math. Come read my blog post and join me on this journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/make-more-use-of-github-io-for-blogging/">Make More Use of github.io for Blogging</a> (Thu Aug 5, 2021)
<br/>MikeLevinSEO shares his strategy for publishing a book, including his plan to use Jekyll and switch his domains from GoDaddy to NameCheap. He explains how he prioritizes his work using three metaphors, and shares his plan to use mikelevinseo.com as his domain name. Follow MikeLevinSEO's journey as he embarks on his book publishing adventure!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/audience/">Audience</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/network/">Network</a></div></div>