<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/">Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-mike-levin-seo-vanity-search-test-w-bing-bard/">A Mike Levin SEO Vanity Search Test w/ Bing & Bard</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO expert based in NYC. I specialize in free and open source software and services, and have created a bookmarklet to help SEO Managers and Technologists. I've achieved a lot in the SEO field, including devising and aiding in the implementation of SEO strategies for Fortune 100s, and lifting the most notorious Google penalty in history. I'm passionate about helping others succeed, and I'm always looking for the next big thing in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/first-day-on-new-job-i-throw-out-my-back/">First Day on New Job & I Throw Out My Back!</a> (Mon Feb 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old SEO expert who has been working in the tech industry for over 25 years. After working at a spin-off of Commodore and a PR company in NYC, I created the Web 2.0-era writing suggestion tool HitTail. I have since done interesting things such as crawling websites directly into Google Docs with API-joins. Today, I'm starting a new journey as an employee of Moz.com and am excited to use my skills and experience.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-few-things-about-me/">A Few Things About Me</a> (Fri Feb 17, 2023)
<br/>As a He/Him living in Staten Island, NYC, I live by the motto "What's Most Broken, Where's The Biggest Bang for The Buck, What Plates Need Spinning". My life is centered around my kid, Linux, Python, vim & git, and daily reading & writing. If I were to participate in an eating contest, Blue Cheese & Skittles would be my choice. I've experienced some truly magical moments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-the-right-thing-morally-spiritually-technically/">Do The Right Thing Morally, Spiritually & Technically</a> (Wed Jun 08, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mike, and I'm determined to not let negativity stop me. I'm taking steps to stay relevant in my industry by learning Linux, Python, vim, and git, while also working on building self-confidence. From my father, a quality assurance engineer, to the Commodore tech of my childhood, to the Microsoft Web-tech I encountered later, I'm learning important lessons and continuously reinventing myself.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/cancelling-netflix-and-chill-t-mobile-offer/">Cancelling Netflix and Chill (T-Mobile offer)</a> (Wed May 25, 2022)
<br/>I'm cancelling my Netflix subscription and shouting out to some YouTube viewers that make streaming fun. I'm also evaluating what I should do today using three daily metaphors, considering moving back to NYC, and discussing the benefits of being anti-fragile. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, Vim, and Git (LPvg) as a practical alternative to Web Development. LPvg is a great way to become a programmer without needing to learn a whole new language.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/powershell/">Powershell</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/dependency/">Dependencies</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>