<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/joining-urls-across-ga-gsc-majestic/">Joining URLs across GA, GSC & Majestic</a> (Tue Jan 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm embarking on a project to create a master-list of URLs with Majestic SEO link data, using sqldict, list comprehensions, fstrings, JupyterLab, Linux, Windows, and async Python page-fetching. I'm using client.get(url) to retrieve data from a table, and have printed out the data to confirm it was correctly retrieved. Come join me on my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/doing-a-google-analytics-api-project-filtering-us-only-traffic/">Doing a Google Analytics API Project (Filtering US Only Traffic)</a> (Tue Dec 06, 2022)
<br/>I'm building a project to connect to Google Analytics via their API, and I've written code to retrieve metrics such as users, sessions, bounce rate, average session duration and pages/session. I'm also creating a text file with a list of profile IDs, segments and start/end dates for the past year, and I've written a loop to generate the start and end dates for each month. Follow along with my project to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/programming-a-python-do-nothing-machine/">Programming a Python Do Nothing Machine</a> (Mon Sep 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm writing a program in Python to create a Do Nothing Machine. Using a command-line, I'm coding a loop that will run until a particular file is removed. The loop will print out the number of seconds it has been running, and once the file is removed, it will print "Need new IP" and create a new file to reset the counter. Follow my journey as I create this program and explore the possibilities of the Do Nothing Machine.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openpyxl-for-creating-a-formatted-excel-file-from-python/">OpenPyXL for creating a formatted Excel file from Python</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I used openpyxl and pandas to create a formatted Excel file from Python. I stepped through each item in a loop and outputted a different tab into the spreadsheet, and then finished the task by deleting. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/templatizing-google-analytics-measurement-id-in-jekyll-github-pages/">Templatizing Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID in Jekyll Github Pages</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I have developed a system using Jekyll and Liquid template language to templatize the Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID for my websites. To keep track of them, I wrote Python scripts to parse through the lines in sites.txt and create a `_config.yml` file for each website. With this system, I have a master list of my sites and a quick way to update the information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-github-ci-nbdev-install-git-hooks/">Disabling Github CI nbdev_install_git_hooks</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my release script using a bash loop and asked myself a few questions to help me decide what the next steps should be. After disabling Github CI nbdev_install_git_hooks and running my release script, I decided the best place to host my project was mikelevinseo.com. Read my blog post to find out how I got there and what I did next.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/transition/">Transition</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/levinux/">Levinux</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>