<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/the-80-20-rule-means-front-loading-the-big-wins/">The 80/20-rule Means Front-loading The Big Wins</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>Ready to make big improvements in your life? I'm sharing my experience on how to use the 80/20-rule and front-load the big wins. Learn how to organize your environment and make the most of your time.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-to-do-how-to-always-be-doing-step/">What To Do? How To Always Be Doing Step</a> (Tue May 31, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking control of my stress and anxiety with breathing exercises and other activities like jumping jacks, journaling, and visualizing the results of my efforts. I'm also reminding myself to take it step by step, double-check my work, and document the small steps I take. With this approach, I'm learning to actualize my thoughts into the real world and experience the magic of being human.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/roomba-poobah-applesauce/">Roomba Poobah Applesauce</a> (Sun May 08, 2022)
<br/>In this post, I explore the implications of Artificial Intelligence and its potential to be considered an art form. I reflect on the Roomba robot vacuum cleaner and how its backoff-and-retry algorithms can be applied to life. I also encourage love and empathy for those being raised by AI, suggesting they read The Culture series by Ian M. Banks. Finally, I end with a light-hearted rhyme to motivate readers to not hold back and to look for the little wins. Read</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/question/">Questions</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/node/">Node</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>