<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/why-markdown-why-yaml-why-they-re-great-together/">Why Markdown? Why YAML? Why They're Great Together!</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss why I chose to use Markdown and YAML together for my 1-textfile-for-life system. I explain why Markdown is popular and why YAML is a great serialization format that is human-readable. I also discuss the benefits of using a static site generator like Jekyll and how YAMLchop can help with creating a 1000-page site from 1 file. Finally, I explore how to render the markdown.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss Microsoft's Embrace & Displace strategy and how it relates to Linux. I explore how this strategy can be used to benefit you, by embracing Linux and its timeless tools, and avoiding the pitfalls of planned obsolescence. Learn how to use vi, vim, NeoVim, the command-line, git, and ssh to stay competitive and never be displaced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recruiting-chatgpt-s-help-advocating-lpvg-toolset/">Recruiting ChatGPT's Help Advocating LPvg Toolset</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin and I'm looking for web-based APIs to help manage Linux system daemons through a Web UI. I'm open to using Flask or running it through Jupyter Notebooks in JupyterLab, hosted on the same Linux machine. I'm forking the .service file and running it as a GNU screen session to get the console-monitoring advantage. I use Linux virtual machines as a universal layer for interoperability and portability to make this skill timeless.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adapting-my-drinkme-for-linux-pipulate-script-for-macs/">Adapting My DrinkMe for Linux Pipulate Script for Macs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm adapting my DrinkMe Linux Pipulate Script for Macs, so I'm using a Linux VM on a Mac for the most precise code execution. To make this easy, I'm using Canonical's MultiPass, which turns on virtualization and sets up a working instance of Ubuntu. I'm also using Apple Bonjour's mDNS to map host ports to the VM ports, and I've updated the install script to ensure Linux graphics work in headful mode.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-the-linux-nomadic-movement-with-the-new-bing/">Imagining The Linux Nomadic Movement With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a developer who values speed, productivity and ergonomics, I have been using Vim since 1976 and it has proven to be a reliable and robust tool. With a large and active community that provides support, documentation and plugins for various purposes, Vim offers advantages over VSCode, such as rapid key sequences, not requiring arrow keys, and performing complex operations with minimal keystrokes. Join me in the Linux nomadic movement.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/unix-linux-won-are-now-the-rules-of-the-road/">Unix/Linux Won & Are Now The Rules of The Road</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin is a 20+ year veteran of the SEO industry who has seen many changes in technology over the years. From his experience as a student intern at Commodore to his current knowledge of Intel Management Engine (IME) and its implications for privacy, Mike has a deep understanding of Unix/Linux and its ever-growing presence in the tech world. Read his blog post to learn more about his journey and the impact of Unix/Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/beware-the-re-corralling/">Beware the Re-Corralling</a> (Fri Jan 06, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the need to stay up-to-date with the latest technological advancements and the potential for AI to disrupt our lives. To prevent becoming too reliant on AI, I suggest running scripts from home to republish blogs and switching to Linux or Unix systems instead of Windows. I also provide tips on how to use modern computer technology, such as connecting to remote computers through SSH, transmitting files with git, editing files with vim, and controlling servicew with the CLI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/with-ai-on-the-way-you-had-better-be-able-to-write-daemons/">With AI On The Way, You Had Better Be Able to Write Daemons</a> (Tue Dec 13, 2022)
<br/>I am engaging in controlled burns of my personal sites to optimize them for SEO, creating video content, writing to express my thoughts, taking up a "magic spell" to free myself from Windows dependency, and planting the seed of my vibe on a homepage kernel. I am a wizard or mad scientist who wants to lead people through their WSL experience with a twist, warn them of the allures of vendor-ware, and promote HTML5, JavaScript, C, and Unix.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share how I tested Ubuntu 20.04 to see if I could easily install LXD. I found that Ubuntu 18.04 is the easier option, since it comes pre-installed with LXD and allows you to quickly get up and running. I also discuss my preference for local services over cloud resources, my advocacy for Linux and my blue-collar mechanic approach to tech literacy. Finally, I suggest JupyterLab-Desktop as a great way to learn Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-11-is-more-like-windows-il-for-it-s-linux/">Windows 11 is more like Windows Il (for It's Linux)</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>Get ready to take the plunge into the world of Linux and Unix-based systems with Windows 11! I'm stubbornly staying on Windows 10 for now, but by enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux and the Hypervisor, I can still experience the move-to-Linux experience Microsoft has planned for us. With the help of Steve Jobs and Lennart Poettering, I can run Linux Terminal sessions under WSL2 and even upgrade my instance to Linux Containers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-nix-today-means-learning-systemd/">Learning *nix Today Means Learning systemd!</a> (Sun Jul 24, 2022)
<br/>As I introduce you to the world of *nix, you'll learn how Linux has pulled ahead of the FreeBSD Unix community, allowing us to take control of our own lives. Discover how Lennart Poettering's controversial systemd for Linux, based on Apple's launchd and launch, has made system automation possible, replacing SysV. Get all the details on this exciting new development in my blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-average-windows-user-to-linux-terminal-user/">From Average Windows User to Linux Terminal User</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As an average Windows user, I'm taking advantage of Microsoft's partnership with Canonical to transition to Linux terminal. I'm installing Ubuntu on my existing laptop running Windows 10 or 11, so I can take advantage of the cloud and protect myself from obsolescence. Join me on my journey as I become a Linux terminal user.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/on-being-unstoppable-apis-lxd-lxd-under-wsl2-success/">On Being Unstoppable, APIs & LXD / LXD Under WSL2 (Success!)</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who recently figured out how to log into a running LXD session from WSL2, I'm encouraging readers to not let anyone or anything stop them from advancing and learning. I use the example of Maxwell's Demon to explain how entropy can be overcome, and suggest using Linux Daemons to help us become Maxwell's Demon. I emphasize the importance of protecting the quality of information coming in and recognizing lies, as well as staying relentless in the pursuit of truth.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-formative-years-at-all-boys-science-summer-camp-integrated-life/">My Formative Years at All-Boys Science Summer Camp / Integrated Life</a> (Mon Jun 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and I advocate for the use of everyday tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git. I'm writing this to let you know that if you don't know \*nix, you're behind, as Unix has been an integral part of computing since 1970. I've made the journey from hand magic, Dungeons & Dragons, and comic books to teaching these tools and believe that life is interconnected and that we should make the most of our everyday skills.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-learning-linux-by-learning-about-what-pissed-off-fernando-corbato/">Start Learning Linux by Learning About What Pissed Off Fernando Corbato</a> (Tue Jun 07, 2022)
<br/>As a frustrated MIT student in the 1950s, I was determined to create a time-sharing system that was accessible to all. After a series of events, I eventually created Linux, a revolutionary operating system that allowed for standard out to standard in, treated everything like a read. Join me on a journey to discover how this summer project changed the world of computing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/levinux-a-small-linux-distro-without-gui-for-education/">Levinux, a Small Linux Distro without GUI for Education</a> (Sun May 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mike Levinux and I created Levinux, a Linux distro designed to help people learn Unix/Linux. It includes components such as Tiny Core Linux, QEMU, BusyBox, and a virtual Linux, plus a file-transfer system and a server-building script system. I advocate for the use of Vim and Git for security, and suggest using Python and forward-slashes for code that will run anywhere.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-macro-to-format-markdown-poetry/">vim Macro to Format Markdown Poetry</a> (Fri May 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm talking about how to use vim to break free from Microsoft, how they are trying to steal Jupyter's features, and why their attempt to create their own version of Unix, Xenix, flopped. I'm also discussing how writing in vim is like driving and how it can free up your executive function for more difficult tasks, and how writing every day can help you become more proficient with your tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-if-my-life-were-just-beginning-now/">What If My Life Were Just Beginning Now?</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have gained a lot of wisdom over the years. From understanding my likes and dislikes and the role of major events in my life, to recognizing the importance of financial security, I have learned a lot. I regret not taking up Python sooner, and I'm grateful for the opportunities Unix has given me. Despite the ups and downs, I wouldn't change my path and am content with how things have turned out. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey and</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/wsl2/">WSL2</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/neovim/">NeoVim</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>