<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-the-best-python-dict-like-api-to-nosql/">Looking For The Best Python dict-like API to NoSQL</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the question of whether making a Python dictionary persistent would make it considered a database, and if so, a NoSQL system. It explains the features needed from the database and provides information about three libraries: ZODB, UnQLite and SqliteDict. I also discuss the possibility of using Python packages to provide a unified dict-like key-value persistent store across different back ends, and provide an example of how to use PyDAL to create a dict-</li>
<li><a href="/blog/where-to-begin-pickle-your-dicts/">Where to Begin? Pickle Your Dicts!</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post invites readers to explore the possibilities of data and tech skills, providing an example of how to create a Pipulate server from a Windows Linux instance. It also dives into the appeal of tool use, and how to create a Python dictionary object and store it in a SQLite database using the SqliteDict package. Join me as I explore the potential of data and tech skills and the tools available to make them work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/per-week-tuples-as-a-google-photos-project/">Per Week Tuples as a Google Photos Project?</a> (Tue Jan 03, 2023)
<br/>As a parent, I'm looking for ways to teach my kid while still making it fun. I'm exploring the capabilities of the Google Photos API, such as albums and mediaItems, and using SQLite3 and SqliteDict to rapidly organize my data better than the Google UI provides. I'm creating a project to capture my lifetime experience with data and preserve it as metadata, using weekly namedtuples to ensure the data is unique.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/browser-automation-becoming-natural-easy-at-long-last/">Browser Automation Becoming Natural & Easy At Long Last</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a big project and documenting my progress on my blog. I've combined tabs into one data frame, deduped the list, calculated job eta, picked APIs date format, and defined typical month ranges for GA APIs. I'm now ready to perform browser automation, configuring the browser to be headless and setting up a namedtuple for arguments. I'm also using the Pandas library to read a directory full of downloads and joining them together.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-named-tuples-to-define-api-job-perform-housekeeping/">Using Named Tuples to Define API-job & Perform Housekeeping</a> (Tue Dec 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm using named tuples from the Python standard library to store data in a SqliteDict file-handle as a database-dict. I've created a named tuple datatype, Arg, to store the site, start date, and end date for each loop iteration. I'm using a bit of code to output the first and last day of each month for the past year in the format of dd/mm/yyyy.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-seo-step-1-persistent-dictionaries/">Python SEO Step #1: Persistent Dictionaries</a> (Wed May 25, 2022)
<br/>In this session, I will teach you how to use Python for SEO, including how to target keywords, collect data, and use machine learning algorithms. We will use JupyterLab, Python dictionaries, and a context manager to eliminate extra code. I will also discuss SqliteDict, a free and open source SQL database, as a key/value system. Learn how to use URLs as keys in key/value pair systems.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/audience/">Audience</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/email/">Email</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>