<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/recruiting-chatgpt-s-help-advocating-lpvg-toolset/">Recruiting ChatGPT's Help Advocating LPvg Toolset</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin and I'm looking for web-based APIs to help manage Linux system daemons through a Web UI. I'm open to using Flask or running it through Jupyter Notebooks in JupyterLab, hosted on the same Linux machine. I'm forking the .service file and running it as a GNU screen session to get the console-monitoring advantage. I use Linux virtual machines as a universal layer for interoperability and portability to make this skill timeless.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-are-the-lessons-from-oldest-recorded-languages-and-writings-on-earth/">What Are The Lessons From Oldest Recorded Languages and Writings On Earth?</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores some of the oldest known recorded stories, histories, myths, and events, dating back to 3100 BCE. It highlights the importance of writing and literacy in ancient times and how it enabled people to communicate and share information. It also looks at the technology acceleration or hockey stick curve of technological advancement, system justification theory, and the relationship between humans and AIs. By understanding these concepts, we can create a better future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figure-out-why-vim-journaling-is-an-asset/">Figure Out Why vim Journaling is an Asset</a> (Mon Feb 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm passionate about free and open source software and determined to stay independent from big companies. Join me in my live interactive chat session to journal about tech and explore the possibilities of OpenAI's ChatGPT. I'm also advocating for the use of Linux and other FOSS tools to help developers stay free and independent. Come join me and learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/programming-a-python-do-nothing-machine/">Programming a Python Do Nothing Machine</a> (Mon Sep 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm writing a program in Python to create a Do Nothing Machine. Using a command-line, I'm coding a loop that will run until a particular file is removed. The loop will print out the number of seconds it has been running, and once the file is removed, it will print "Need new IP" and create a new file to reset the counter. Follow my journey as I create this program and explore the possibilities of the Do Nothing Machine.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-key-lxc-api-detail-i-must-master/">The Key LXC API Detail I Must Master</a> (Mon Jun 27, 2022)
<br/>As I dive deeper into the LXC API, I must understand the command "su --login ubuntu" in order to fully comprehend "lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu". Join me as I explore the nuances of this command and all the possibilities it unlocks.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/push/">Push</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/github copilot/">Github Copilot</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>