<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss Microsoft's Embrace & Displace strategy and how it relates to Linux. I explore how this strategy can be used to benefit you, by embracing Linux and its timeless tools, and avoiding the pitfalls of planned obsolescence. Learn how to use vi, vim, NeoVim, the command-line, git, and ssh to stay competitive and never be displaced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/auto-complete-a-k-a-intellisense-is-your-most-dangerous-dependency/">Auto-Complete a.k.a. Intellisense Is Your Most Dangerous Dependency</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>As a coder, I'm warning people about the dangers of becoming too dependent on auto-complete (Intellisense). It's important to learn to code without relying on proprietary features and data-sets, or else you'll be left behind when the tools inevitably change. If you become too reliant on Intellisense, you won't be able to code without it, and you won't be able to keep up with the changing technology.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/e-e-a-t-the-new-google-quality-guidelines/">E-E-A-T The New Google Quality Guidelines</a> (Fri Dec 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm focusing on exuding Google's Quality Guidelines, E-E-A-T, by creating unique and genuine content that demonstrates my experience. I'm also keeping dependencies low and updating the Levinux index.html file, as well as making sure the DrinkMe script is accessible. Join me as I take you through my journey to follow Google's Quality Guidelines.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-are-we-not-adapting-to-new-realities/">When Are We Not Adapting to New Realities?</a> (Mon Dec 05, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm excited to read the last book in the ExForce SciFi series. I'm also working on a project and considering reusing the Pipulate library, using the DrinkMe Linux platform, or creating a modern Noah's Ark platform. I need to be aware of vendors trying to lure me into a dependency and alternatives to local Jupyter. Join me as I explore the options and decide which is best for my project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gutting-dependencies-out-of-your-projects-life/">Gutting Dependencies Out Of Your Projects & Life</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm using Juneteenth as a day off from work to get some stuff done. I'm severing the dependency on Github Pages templates from my Jekyll static site generator and gradually getting better at coding. After making changes to the CSS file and deleting an import line, I inspected the cached CSS and transposed bits I wanted to keep. After publishing the page, the background turned white and the text and links were a more traditional color.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-nbdev/">Testing nbdev</a> (Thu Feb 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm an SEO with over 20 years of experience, and I'm learning the nbdev library. I've set up the settings.ini file and tested out nbdev_build_libs, and I'm now creating a 00_core.ipynb file. I'm making sure to record the dependencies and to avoid using the "black" uncompromising code formatter in iPhone Carnets. Join me as I share my journey of learning nbdev and how I'm adapting</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/science/">Science</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/nyc/">NYC</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>