<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-a-new-blogging-system-create-a-title-field-under-date-to-release/">Starting a New Blogging System (create a title field under date to release)</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new journal entry system with the 80-long hyphen as a blog-slicer token and place-holder for the Liquid template system. I'm using Jekyll, an open source static site generator, and a macro system to ensure reverse-chronological entries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-large-browser-automation-job/">Planning A Large Browser Automation Job</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm getting ready for a big browser automation job. I'm creating a new folder, making a repository, giving the project a codename, loading data into a dataframe, deduplicating it, calculating an estimated time of completion, and generating API-calls for the full year. Plus, I'm setting up a structure to step through a database and perform an API call or browser automation, creating a namedtuple with 100 domains, and using a template for browser automation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-playwright-codegen-and-playwright-inspector-tools/">Python Playwright CodeGen and Playwright Inspector Tools</a> (Thu Dec 08, 2022)
<br/>I'm using the Python Playwright CodeGen and Playwright Inspector Tools to make automation easier. With the built-in tools I can record my browser activity and generate code for it. After experimenting with different commands, I was able to successfully run the python -m playwright codegen --target python-async command, allowing me to record my automation code in JupyterLab. I also created two templates for easier development.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-the-lpvg-message-on-point-with-a-series-of-1-minute-videos/">Get the LPvg Message On-Point with a series of 1-minute videos</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I have been an SEO for 25 years and am now creating a series of 1-minute videos to grow my presence on YouTube. I'm using heavily edited videos, optimized for keywords and titles, to spread my message and mission. I decided to promote the idea of Linux, Python, vim and git as a single platform for development and delivery, and called it the LPvg movement. Join me as I share my 25 years of SEO experience to help you grow your presence on YouTube.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sending-an-html-email-with-embedded-image-from-python/">Sending an HTML Email with Embedded Image From Python</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share my project of sending an HTML email with an embedded image from Python. This code sets up a scheduler to run certain functions at set intervals, including printing "Hello World" every 10 seconds, writing the pulse count and current date/time to a file every 5 seconds, and sending an email with an HTML attachment every minute. Come read more about my project and how it can be used as a template for other projects around the world.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/edit-10-blogs-homepages-or-templates-all-at-once/">Edit 10 Blogs, Homepages or Templates All At Once</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm breathing new life into MikeLev.in, creating a \_layouts folder in each repo with a default.html file to get my Google Analytics code on each site. I've also created helper-scripts to edit all my site-files at once and am putting rudimentary site-navigation links in place. I'm considering switching gears to make it about previous/next blog, so stay tuned for more updates!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/struggling-through-github-pages-startup-process/">Struggling Through Github Pages Startup Process</a> (Thu Aug 26, 2021)
<br/>I just finished setting up a new website on Github Pages, after a long and complicated process of setting up DNS, Git repositories, Jekyll templating, and more. I'm happy with the result, but now it's time to get to work - so I'll have to wait a couple days to enjoy the fruits of my labor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/re-launch-mikelevinseo-com-on-github-io/">(Re)Launch MikeLevinSEO.com on Github.io</a> (Fri Aug 6, 2021)
<br/>I'm excited to announce the relaunch of my blog/journal on Github.io! After finding the DNS, deleting records, and setting up the Github repository, I enabled Github Pages, added the domain to Github settings, and customized the template. To top it off, I added Google Analytics and Search Console tracking. Come check out my new blog and join me on this journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/habit/">Habits</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/microsoft-playwright/">Microsoft Playwright</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>