<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/qnap-hybrid-sync-backup-warnings-failed-to-copy-all-data-and-attributes/">QNAP Hybrid Sync Backup Warnings Failed to copy all data and attributes</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>After experiencing a terrible headache, I decided to err on the side of caution and turn off the Copilot plugin for .txt files. I then noticed a warning that my NAS backup had failed to copy all data and attributes, and after logging in by SSH, I discovered the issue was with unsupported filenames. I resolved to fix it later - read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share how I tested Ubuntu 20.04 to see if I could easily install LXD. I found that Ubuntu 18.04 is the easier option, since it comes pre-installed with LXD and allows you to quickly get up and running. I also discuss my preference for local services over cloud resources, my advocacy for Linux and my blue-collar mechanic approach to tech literacy. Finally, I suggest JupyterLab-Desktop as a great way to learn Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/qnap-container-station-lxc-end-of-support-notification-move-to-lxd/">Qnap Container Station Lxc End Of Support Notification, Move To Lxd</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>As a QNAP NAS user, I recently received a notification that LXC files are no longer supported and I must transition to LXD. This left me with the need to do some research, which I have documented in this blog post. Read on to learn more about my journey and the results of my research.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/tuples/">Tuples</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/computer/">Computer</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>