<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rendering-un-styled-jekyll-markdown-drafts-for-pasting-into-google-docs/">Rendering Un-Styled Jekyll Markdown Drafts for Pasting Into Google Docs</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>Render un-styled Jekyll Markdown drafts for pasting into Google Docs with this easy-to-implement technique. Learn how to use the `published: false` directive, the `yaml_generator` function, and a stripped-down template named `plain.html` to generate drafts that can be pasted into Google Docs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/cringy-long-ufo-uap-video-eric-weinstein-mick-west-talk-for-hours/">Cringy & Long UFO/UAP Video: Eric Weinstein & Mick West Talk For Hours</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>As a fan of Mick West and Eric Weinstein, I have been watching their videos to understand their different theories about UFOs and UAPs, including the possibility of our existence being different than we think. Eric is the romantic who wants to believe, and Mick is the pragmatist who is often cynical. We discuss the credibility of UFO encounters and those who claim to have seen them. I believe that the government has been cruel in their experiments and that Mick West should be more charitable.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-the-skinny-on-skinny-bob-via-youtube-user-ivan0135/">Seeking the Skinny on Skinny Bob via YouTube user ivan0135</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibility that Skinny Bob type aliens may be from an extra-dimensional reality or consciousness, and I'm considering four different scenarios to explain their origin. I've given each scenario a score out of 10, and I'm looking for corroborating evidence to verify my findings. Join me on my journey to uncover the truth about Skinny Bob type aliens!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/is-the-quantum-premise-implied-by-planck-s-equation-e-hv-balanced/">Is The Quantum Premise Implied by Planck's Equation E = hv Balanced?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I was asked about Planck's equation E=hv and the quantum premise it implies. I explained the equation, dimensional analysis, and SI based units. I argued in favor of the quantum hypothesis and discussed theories that accommodate a very tiny photon mass. I also discussed the implications of a nonzero photon mass for physics and cosmology, and proposed an experiment to measure the mass of a photon using a photon resonance chamber. Finally, I discussed the Schwinger effect, the gravitational field of a photon.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/is-the-quantum-premise-implied-by-planck-s-equation-e-hv-balanced/">Is The Quantum Premise Implied by Planck's Equation E = hv Balanced?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I was asked about Planck's equation E=hv and the quantum premise it implies. I explained the equation, dimensional analysis, and SI based units. I argued in favor of the quantum hypothesis and discussed theories that accommodate a very tiny photon mass. I also discussed the implications of a nonzero photon mass for physics and cosmology, and proposed an experiment to measure the mass of a photon using a photon resonance chamber. Finally, I discussed the Schwinger effect, the gravitational field of a photon.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/draft/">Drafts</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/processing/">Processing</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>