<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/when-your-tools-are-timeless-so-are-you/">When Your Tools Are Timeless, So Are You</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>As a Subject Matter Expert (SME) at MOZ and an advocate of Linux, Python, vim & git, I am passionate about finding ways to use these technologies in my workflow. I am exploring fringe tech that should be mainstream, promoting Linux, Python, vim, and git as a minimum toolchain. I am also discussing the importance of language and how it helps machines think like us, as well as the Microsoft taxes that cannot be avoided.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/watch-me-struggle-with-mermaid-js/">Watch Me Struggle With Mermaid JS</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm live-streaming my daily journal before my 9:30 AM call. I'm using NeoVim, OpenAI auto-suggest, and Mermaid JS to work on a data project with a deadline. I'm also using CoPilot AI Pair Programming and Github CoPilot to help me out. I'm avoiding full web stack technologies and changing the background to white. Come join me on my journey as I explore noosphere and create quick diagrams with Mermaid!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-diddle-diddle-now-neovim-s-my-fiddle/">Hey Diddle Diddle, Now NeoVim's My Fiddle</a> (Sun Apr 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting up macros in my NeoVim text editor to turn my journal entries into web pages. After 10 years of using this text editor, I'm vlogging the process and exploring new habits. As an advocate for Linux, Python, vim, and git, I still have to pay a Microsoft tax for tools like Github Pro, Github CoPilot, and Microsoft 365. I'm currently formatting the output of a new dice.py file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/curiouser-and-curiouser-personal-journaling-w-ai/">Curiouser and Curiouser Personal Journaling w/AI</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>As a software engineer, data scientist, writer, husband, father, and friend, I am using Github Copilot, Microsoft Terminal, Carnac, and Microsoft Edge to write my personal journal. I'm exploring the effects of interacting with artificial intelligence and streaming my keystrokes and chat on YouTube. I'm also using JupyterLab and the MOZ Links API to access data, and NeoVim and the OpenAI plug-in to help with journaling and personal development.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/connecting-to-the-moz-links-api-v1-for-the-first-time/">Connecting to the Moz Links API V1 For the First Time</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying out a new writing and video-recording habit and connecting to the Moz Links API V1 for the first time. I'm using Github Copilot, Carnac settings, and the Python requests library. I attempted my first request but got a 401. After further investigation, I was successful in making the request, though the documentation could have been clearer. Join me as I document the process of setting up a streaming channel with the Moz Links API.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-are-the-main-differences-between-neovim-and-vim/">What are the main differences between NeoVim and vim?</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered the advantages of using NeoVim over Vim, including its improved maintainability, plugin system, and customizability. After learning about the ability to work with Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code, I asked Bing why Github Copilot was only integrated with NeoVim. He provided resources to help me understand and I used the Getting Started with Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code guide to learn how to use the extension.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/pypi/">PyPI</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/empathy/">Empathy</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>