<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rid-yourself-of-imposter-syndrome-and-start-living-your-best-life/">Rid Yourself of Imposter Syndrome and Start Living Your Best Life</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I never really became an entrepreneur, but I do use their tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git to build my projects and occasionally consider Kickstarting campaign. I no longer suffer from imposter syndrome, as I have learned that I am good enough and can be proud of my work. I now show others that it is possible to follow their dreams and make a difference, without being an assholepreneur. LPvg gives me the tools I need to build and stay ahead of the curve. Join me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/day-3-at-moz/">Day 3 at MOZ</a> (Wed Mar 01, 2023)
<br/>On my third day of my new job, I'm setting up to work on both Mac and PC as many influencers use Macs. I'm troubleshooting a few issues with permissions, and staying organized and on top of my expectations. I'm also thinking of article ideas to entice readers to click through to the blog post, such as "How Do You Still Target The Long Tail? Is The Long-tail Dead?</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-google-photos-organization-program/">Testing Google Photos Organization Program</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm testing a Google Photos organization system, uploading photos to my NAS, and setting up a home cloud to increase my storage capabilities. To get around certain API limitations, I'm using Microsoft Playwright browser automation on a headless LXD server. In this blog post, I discuss the impact of media on society and how it can be used to shape public opinion and create a more informed and connected society. Read more to find out my thoughts on this important topic.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/cast-a-homunculus-majordomo-to-help-run-your-life/">Cast a Homunculus Majordomo to Help Run Your Life</a> (Fri Oct 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking up Linux, Python, Vim, and Git as if they were tools in a carpenter's toolbox, and learning to use FOSS instead of cloud services. I'm creating performance art with these principles, doing real-time idea-capture, aligning small steps to feedback loops, and using GitHub and GitLab. I'm trying to figure out the best way to approach learning new tech tools and advocate the use of Linux, Python, Vim and Git.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-multiple-blogs-within-one-github-pages-site/">Planning Multiple Blogs Within One Github Pages Site</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning to use Github Pages to host multiple blogs in one site, and I'm considering changes to my old content and URLs, as well as adding tags, a "big list" of blog posts, pagination, and thumbnail embeds. My goal is to create a website that provides the wisdom of the ages, allowing for objective thought and accessible through any device or tablet. Come explore my digital portal and join me in creating a space of freedom and objectivity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-is-not-easy-to-do-real-life-or-linux/">Moving Is Not Easy To Do: Real-life or Linux</a> (Thu Jul 21, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved, and it was a lot of work to stay organized. Moving to a new place has allowed me to think things through and reorient myself, and I'm looking to establish momentum, reacquire my equilibrium, and keep creating. Unfortunately, I've found that Windows 11 doesn't let you hide taskbar icons, and even hacks to remove the clock don't work. Read my blog post to find out how I'm dealing with the transition.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-tricks-why-the-walrus-fears-the-carpenter/">vim tricks: Why The Walrus Fears The Carpenter</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>I'm busy today getting organized, but I'm also doing a livecast with my morning thoughts. I've written a blog post about how Linux, Python, vim & git intersect, with a venn diagram to illustrate - come check it out!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-your-daily-vim-exercise/">Get Your Daily vim Exercise</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning to express myself fluently in English, use Linux, Python, vim, and git, and focus on joy-filled habits. I'm also recognizing the importance of maintenance and organization to achieve flow, but understand the difficulty of developing habits in a constantly changing environment. I'm exploring the luxuries of static environments, like properties and inheritances, and how they can help with habit formation.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/twitter/">Twitter</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/csv/">CSV</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>