<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/why-markdown-why-yaml-why-they-re-great-together/">Why Markdown? Why YAML? Why They're Great Together!</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss why I chose to use Markdown and YAML together for my 1-textfile-for-life system. I explain why Markdown is popular and why YAML is a great serialization format that is human-readable. I also discuss the benefits of using a static site generator like Jekyll and how YAMLchop can help with creating a 1000-page site from 1 file. Finally, I explore how to render the markdown.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-a-systemd-service-with-chatgpt/">Making a SystemD Service With ChatGPT</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>I'm writing a systemd service that uses GNU screen to run a python script in the background. In this blog post, I share the details of the service, including the command to be run, the user account to run the service as, and the environment variables to be set. I also explain the meaning of the word "majordomo" and how to create a nbdev version 2 project in a folder called majordaemo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/one-penguin-turns-and-says-to-the-other-you-know-it-s-funny/">One Penguin Turns and Says to The Other, You Know It's Funny...</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm an SEO, and I'm reflecting on the incredible technology that has allowed us to evolve over time. I'm exploring the impact of GNU licenses and the contributions of Ken Thompson, Linux Torvalds and Richard Matthew Stallman, as well as the implications of artificial intelligence. I'm also reminiscing about my journey from Commodore to Scala to Conners Communications, and my creation of HitTail, to my current position in New York City.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fight-the-chaos-of-windows-10-use-virtual-desktops-linux/">Fight the Chaos of Windows 10 : Use Virtual Desktops & Linux</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm rebooting my "Make Windows 10" series with a focus on fighting chaos. To stay organized, I'm recommending Virtual Desktops, WSL, and removing tiles, clock, and Taskbar icons. For Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab users, I'm suggesting running the server Linux-side under GNU. Join me in my journey to a more organized Windows 10 experience!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/say-the-magic-words-open-terminal/">Say The Magic Words: Open Terminal!</a> (Sat Jun 11, 2022)
<br/>I learned the French Drop finger magic trick from my camp counselor Mike Silver at Science Camp Watonka when I was 12 years old. Now, I'm introducing a new skill called the French Drop and Miss. Direction, closely aligned with Unix/Linux. This skill is future-proof, obsolescence resistant, and immune to disruption. It's important to not solely depend on GUIs and to focus on Unix/Linux terminal.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/quantum/">Quantum</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/field/">Fields</a></div></div>