<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/challenging-openai-to-write-a-better-subhead-than-this-headline/">Challenging OpenAI to Write a Better Subhead Than this Headline</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently signed up for Copilot, an AI that can summarize and assign keywords to my writing. I'm exploring the idea of home and how it is not confined to the place you were born into. I'm discovering my roots are inside me and that I can find places I feel most at home. I'm also investigating spiritual connection and its impact on our lives. Read my blog post to explore these ideas with me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-chat-with-chatgpt-about-the-cancel-culture-full-scroll-browser-snapshots/">A Chat with ChatGPT About the Cancel Culture & Full-scroll Browser Snapshots</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I discuss the potential of using AI at home with now cheap GPUs, exploring the improved efficiency, enhanced security, better health monitoring, and entertainment and education it can provide. Additionally, I explore potential ways to make money by promoting the ideas and benefits of AI at home, such as through affiliate marketing, advertising, consulting, and e-commerce. I also provide a code example of how to use Puppeteer or Playwright to capture the full vertical scroll.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/back-hurts-but-maintain-your-indomitable-spirit/">Back Hurts, But Maintain Your Indomitable Spirit</a> (Mon Feb 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting out to make a positive difference in my life and the lives of others today. My goals for the day include completing paperwork for my upcoming job, creating a new website, and organizing my home. I'm also taking care of my leopard gecko and staying engaged. My motivation is to make sure my child has a good experience in life and to help others feel good about life. I'm starting with the living room to make it a special place for my family.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switching-from-wsl-to-lxd-containers-permanently/">Switching From WSL to LXD Containers Permanently</a> (Tue Sep 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big change to my workflow and switching from Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to LXD Containers on Windows. I've set up the mappings and added a command to my .bash_profile in WSL, and now I'm testing to make sure it's working. I'm hoping to move all my work over to the Container, and I've even figured out a trick to find the Windows home location. Come read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-into-lxd-wsl2-home-once-you-ve-moved-into-containers/">Moving Into LXD WSL2 ~/ "Home" Once You've Moved Into Containers</a> (Wed Jul 20, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explains how I am using Linux Containers (LXD) and WSL2 to create a comfortable and productive home, inspired by a YouTube video about a child prodigy. I'm detailing the steps I'm taking to mount my ~/github and ~/.ssh files to my container, codifying the steps to create a container, setting up a script to put a few files directly in ~/ including a .bash_profile, creating a "helpers" repo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/pypi/">PyPI</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/push/">Push</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>