<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/recapturing-that-old-force-of-nature-feeling/">Recapturing That Old Force of Nature Feeling</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to recapture the old feeling of being a Force of Nature I had when younger by harnessing the power of AI-assisted coding. Learn the tricks of using Python and MermaidJS diagrams. Get to the next level with story-telling on your Powerpoint-like decks for MOZ.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-your-tools-are-timeless-so-are-you/">When Your Tools Are Timeless, So Are You</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>As a Subject Matter Expert (SME) at MOZ and an advocate of Linux, Python, vim & git, I am passionate about finding ways to use these technologies in my workflow. I am exploring fringe tech that should be mainstream, promoting Linux, Python, vim, and git as a minimum toolchain. I am also discussing the importance of language and how it helps machines think like us, as well as the Microsoft taxes that cannot be avoided.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-visualize-websites-as-network-node-graphs/">Let's Visualize Websites as Network Node Graphs</a> (Tue Dec 27, 2022)
<br/>I've been researching the best way to visualize large link and node graphs in Jupyter notebooks, comparing the advantages and disadvantages of using NetworkX and Bokeh, and have decided to try out Plotly. Over the holiday I made progress and outlined a plan to create 3D interactive visualizations in JupyterLab. I'm also teaching stakeholders how to access data on their own by setting up an instance of Linux WSL, installing nodejs and jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/internalizing-tools-through-eepigenetics/">Internalizing Tools Through Eepigenetics</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>This article reflects on my journey in life, discussing the concept of epigenetics and Mike Levin, a microbiologist who shares my name and is a hero of mine. I explore my experiences in life, including falling victim to shortcut-seekers and narcissists, and how I am learning to make sure I don't lose myself to someone else. I have embraced my environment by finding my tools, and have realized the importance of incorporating VSCode into my DNA. I discuss the power of text editors.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-don-t-want-to-blow-up/">I Don't Want To Blow Up</a> (Sun May 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I use Linux, Python, Vim and Git as my go-to tools. I'm a big fan of Bram Moolenaar's plain old Vim from 1991, as it's more future-proof and resistant to obsolescence. Are you looking to learn Vim? I'm encouraging you to do so - just type `wsl --install` in a DOS COM to get started. Vim is a powerful tool and is much more fundamental than the full web stack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-don-t-want-to-blow-up/">I Don't Want To Blow Up</a> (Sun May 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I use Linux, Python, Vim and Git as my go-to tools. I'm a big fan of Bram Moolenaar's plain old Vim from 1991, as it's more future-proof and resistant to obsolescence. Are you looking to learn Vim? I'm encouraging you to do so - just type `wsl --install` in a DOS COM to get started. Vim is a powerful tool and is much more fundamental than the full web stack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/anyone-who-tells-you-language-doesn-t-matter-is-a-lying-dumbass/">Anyone Who Tells You Language Doesn't Matter is a Lying Dumbass</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>As a programmer, I missed the Full Web Stack revolution based on Google V8 JavaScript extraction from Chrome known as NodeJS. I chose Python as my primary language, and while I appreciate JavaScript's loveworthy bits, I've always wondered why web browsers are so locked down to just JavaScript. Discover why this restriction forces the web to be an always JavaScript game, and the browser vendor and governance issues behind it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/proprietary/">Proprietary</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/web development/">Web Development</a></div></div>