<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/connecting-to-the-moz-links-api-v1-for-the-first-time/">Connecting to the Moz Links API V1 For the First Time</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying out a new writing and video-recording habit and connecting to the Moz Links API V1 for the first time. I'm using Github Copilot, Carnac settings, and the Python requests library. I attempted my first request but got a 401. After further investigation, I was successful in making the request, though the documentation could have been clearer. Join me as I document the process of setting up a streaming channel with the Moz Links API.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-the-linux-nomadic-movement-with-the-new-bing/">Imagining The Linux Nomadic Movement With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a developer who values speed, productivity and ergonomics, I have been using Vim since 1976 and it has proven to be a reliable and robust tool. With a large and active community that provides support, documentation and plugins for various purposes, Vim offers advantages over VSCode, such as rapid key sequences, not requiring arrow keys, and performing complex operations with minimal keystrokes. Join me in the Linux nomadic movement.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/numbering-weeks-from-utc-zero-vs-your-birthday/">Numbering Weeks from UTC-Zero Vs. Your Birthday</a> (Wed Feb 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to decide the best way to break up my Google Photos querying project into chunks of time. Should I use weeks measured from Unix Timestamp or from my own birthday? I'm now considering writing my own code, as I'm losing faith in the code I was given from ChatGPT. Read more to find out how I'm tackling this project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-github-pages-mermaid-diagrams/">Testing Github Pages Mermaid Diagrams</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I tested Github Pages Mermaid Diagrams to make sure my main homepage is up to date and optimized for SEO. My tests were successful, so I'm now able to add a mermaid diagram to my homepage. Plus, I found a page that documents the mermaid system. Read my blog post to find out how I used Github Pages and Mermaid Diagrams to improve my website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-the-screen-command-for-linux-service/">How to Use the Screen Command for Linux Service</a> (Fri Oct 28, 2022)
<br/>As I learn how to use the Screen Command for Linux Service, I'm documenting my journey with a blog post. I've written a file to be placed in /etc/systemd/system/ and have watched a video to help me better understand the process. Come join me as I explore this new technology!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-automated-script-on-nas-24x7-under-lxd-container/">Running Automated Script on NAS 24x7 Under LXD Container</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm documenting my journey of learning about Container Station and LXD, and how I successfully set up a long-running script in a Linux Container on my QNAP NAS. I've already created two YouTube videos to document the process, and now I'm working on changing the script into a Python one and making it do something to remind me of something daily. Follow my journey and learn how to set up your own Linux Container!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/setting-up-qnap-nas-lxd-linux-container-on-container-station/">Setting Up QNAP NAS LXD Linux Container on Container Station</a> (Tue Oct 25, 2022)
<br/>I did it! I successfully set up a 24x7 LXD Container home server on my QNAP NAS, complete with a hostname, network mode, and password-free login. To help others, I even made a couple of videos documenting the process. Now I'm ready to start doing projects on my server - come check out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openpyxl-for-creating-a-formatted-excel-file-from-python/">OpenPyXL for creating a formatted Excel file from Python</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I used openpyxl and pandas to create a formatted Excel file from Python. I stepped through each item in a loop and outputted a different tab into the spreadsheet, and then finished the task by deleting. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/trying-again-to-get-lxd-working-under-microsoft-subsystem-for-linux/">Trying Again To Get LXD Working Under Microsoft Subsystem For Linux</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm determined to get LXD running under Microsoft Subsystem for Linux, and I'm not giving up! I've followed the official instructions and attempted to create a new storage pool, but I keep running into errors. To document my journey, I'm creating a new video - join me as I work to make this work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/okay-i-m-finally-keeping-audiences-in-mind/">Okay, I'm Finally Keeping Audiences In Mind</a> (Thu Apr 7, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating journal entries for an audience, with the help of WhatsaMetaFor.io and the mlseo package. I'm using metaphors such as the 80/20 rule and rabbit hole evaluations to stay focused and productive. I recently took a risk and explored the nbdev rabbit hole, which led me to create a Github repository and a script to prepare my project for release. Join me on my journey and read my blog post to learn more!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/browser automation/">Browser Automation</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/docker/">Docker</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>