<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-ai-auto-publishing-anything/">Disabling AI Auto-Publishing Anything</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered a problem with Jekyll when trying to produce a list of the 10 most recent posts. To solve this, I used Python to control the list iteration and created a 5 x 20 grid of the top-100 categories on my website. After testing it in Jupyter, I successfully produced a table with the top 100 categories. I also recently switched from Windows 10 to Windows 11 and was able to transfer the 'soul' of the machine, including my system setup.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-modestly-ponders-changing-expectations-in-search-industry/">Bing Modestly Ponders Changing Expectations in Search Industry</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>In this conversation with Mike Levin, I discussed the concept of customer "lock-in" in relation to Google AdWords. I explained that while AdWords users are not locked in, they are encouraged to use it because it is the most effective way to advertise on Google's search engine. We then discussed the potential disruption caused by new developments in technology that could change the search experience, and how Google needs to adapt to meet the expectations of users around the world. Finally, we discussed the discrepancy.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/netflix-binging-vs-microsoft-binging-gerunds-vs-adjectives/">Netflix Binging vs Microsoft Binging (Gerunds vs. Adjectives)</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>Confused about the difference between gerunds and adjectives that end in "-ing"? I asked Bing for help and was surprised to learn that gerunds are verbs that function as nouns, and adjectives are words that describe nouns. Bing also gave me the term for two words that are spelled identically but have different meanings based on context - homograph - and provided examples. We discussed how to differentiate between the words bing and binge.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/first-day-on-new-job-i-throw-out-my-back/">First Day on New Job & I Throw Out My Back!</a> (Mon Feb 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old SEO expert who has been working in the tech industry for over 25 years. After working at a spin-off of Commodore and a PR company in NYC, I created the Web 2.0-era writing suggestion tool HitTail. I have since done interesting things such as crawling websites directly into Google Docs with API-joins. Today, I'm starting a new journey as an employee of Moz.com and am excited to use my skills and experience.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-is-disincentivizing-installing-chrome-changing-default-search/">Microsoft is disincentivizing Installing Chrome & Changing Default Search</a> (Sat Feb 25, 2023)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I'm fascinated by Microsoft's bold move to power AI ChatBot responses with Azure cloud computing and disincentivize users from installing Chrome or changing their default search settings. This could have a huge impact on Google's main revenue stream and completely shift the landscape of the tech industry. Learn more about this fascinating development and its potential implications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/deep-breath-before-keyword-histogram-clustering/">Deep Breath Before Keyword Histogram Clustering</a> (Sun Jan 22, 2023)
<br/>As I explore the potential of machine learning to optimize my blog content, I am considering changes to my domain URLs to appeal to search and AI systems. Additionally, I plan to create an MLGL license and a heartbeat tech system, and use Linux commands to keep my laptop and server instances in sync. By leveraging my laptop computing power to analyze server data, I am confident I can create a more effective blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/happy-birthday-adi/">Happy Birthday Adi!</a> (Mon Nov 07, 2022)
<br/>Today is my birthday and I'm feeling motivated to keep pushing forward with my progress. Celebrating five years of employment, I'm ready to take on the next task - resolving an unexpected issue with my table-joins. Join me as I explore how to ensure my search volumes don't get lost in the process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sub-linux-sub-love-so-learn/">Sub-Linux Sub-Love So-Learn</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I've been on YouTube since 2006, and now I'm embracing free and open source software. I'm encouraging people to escape Windows, Mac and proprietary software, and to write a daily journal in vim. I'm talking more to myself and sharing some of my personal and proprietary information, but with a positive spin. I'm taking advice from Rafiki and learning from the past to improve my future. Join me on this journey and discover how to make the most of free and open source software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recording-vim-macro-for-markdown-image-insertion/">Recording vim macro for markdown image insertion</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm hosting a livecasting event to show you how to use vim macros to quickly turn keyworded image files into the markdown required for HTML image insertion. I'll be demonstrating how to use search & replace patterns to capitalize and separate words, so you can learn how to quickly add images to your blog posts. Join me to learn this time-saving technique!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/experiment/">Experiment</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/macro/">Macro</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>