<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-equivalent-alternative-to-usr-local-sbin/">Looking For Equivalent Alternative to /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I recently published from a Windows 11 laptop using NeoVim's new terminal macro and I'm starting to see the vimscript command: if has('nvim'). With this, I'm hoping to have a single .vimrc that works for both vim and NeoVim. I tested moving a draft post between machines and it worked, but I noticed that when I add anything to my spell-check library with the zg command, I lose syntax highlighting in NeoVim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/yaml-validation-now-baked-into-yamlesque-journaling-system/">YAML-validation Now Baked Into YAMLesque Journaling System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm a big fan of the Google App and seeing AI appear there via Google Discover. I'm enjoying watching Microsoft embracing and displacing Google with AI. I suggest people make automations they want to rule them. I wrote a poem about a fictional AI named Yahwanna. I'm also using AI ChatBots, OpenAI's GPT products, API-request, SQLite database, YAML, Mermaid diagram, and a local SQLite key-value store. And more if you can believe it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/yaml-validation-now-baked-into-yamlesque-journaling-system/">YAML-validation Now Baked Into YAMLesque Journaling System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm a big fan of the Google App and seeing AI appear there via Google Discover. I'm enjoying watching Microsoft embracing and displacing Google with AI. I suggest people make automations they want to rule them. I wrote a poem about a fictional AI named Yahwanna. I'm also using AI ChatBots, OpenAI's GPT products, API-request, SQLite database, YAML, Mermaid diagram, and a local SQLite key-value store. And more if you can believe it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-my-moves-as-machines-rise/">Planning My Moves As Machines Rise</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>I am a 52-year-old marketer who has been trying to use the past to inform my decisions and understand the rise of machines. After recently losing my job, I am looking to start my own international education initiative, LPvg.org, and charge people $10/month for spiritual guidance and a competitive edge. I have also updated my Twitter profile to promote my blog and YouTube channel, as well as my latest venture, Pipulate.com/MLGL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-which-saw-to-keep-sharp/">Figuring Out Which Saw To Keep Sharp</a> (Sat Jan 28, 2023)
<br/>As I look for ways to stay marketable and increase my economic value, I'm exploring the use of AI as an agent with my login credentials. SEO has become my purpose and I'm researching the potential of new technologies like ChatGPT to bridge the gap between what people can do and what machines can do. Join me as I dive into this research and discover how AI can help me stay ahead of the curve.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-to-ideate-the-idea-capture-device/">Starting to Ideate the Idea Capture Device</a> (Fri Jan 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to come up with a creative way to capture all of my ideas, so I recently looked into using Python to read emails and create an idea capture machine. This got me thinking of the song John Henry, and how he worked so hard that he broke his poor heart. I'm now on a mission to find a way to capture my ideas and explore the world.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/.vimrc/">.vimrc</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/commit/">Commit</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>