<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/the-ais-will-find-you-if-you-re-unique/">The AIs Will Find You If You're Unique</a> (Mon Feb 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm taking my Google Photos processing to the next level by creating a service to download and copy one month of photos at random. To do this, I'm using Python scripts, headless Linux Chrome automation, and the headlines import to generate a list of files to be archived. I'm also taking the Google Photos tutorial out of the practice folder and moving it to the actual gphotos repo. Follow my journey as I take my Google Photos processing to the next level!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-practice-folder-created/">Pipulate Practice Folder Created</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm pushing myself to take the next steps in the Pipulate project, focusing on collaboration and best practices. I'm exploring ideas to use AI to edit my YouTube videos, setting up the Pipulate repo and practice folder, and activating scheduling under a systemd service. I'm using nbdev version 2 and OhAwf with the addition of the run_console feature. All the necessary software can be found on the Pipulate Software page. Come explore the possibilities with me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/send-email-with-file-attachment-from-python/">Send Email With File Attachment From Python</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>I wrote code to enhance the sendemail.py program to include HTML and an image attachment, as well as a zipped file. I then created a program to schedule the sendmail.py file to run every 10 seconds, 5 seconds, and 1 minute, sending an email with the attached file. Read my blog post to learn more about how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-container-on-windows-wsl2-using-nas-smb-cifs-share/">LXD Container on Windows WSL2 Using NAS SMB/CIFS Share</a> (Mon Jul 25, 2022)
<br/>After struggling to set up a LXD container, I found the solution to my problem - mapping my NAS, .ssh folder, .gitconfig, and .vimrc files, and then running two commands from within the container. I also had to mount a Windows network share using the command 'sudo mount -t drvfs '\\EchidNAS\data' /mnt/data'. Now my LXD container is running as expected.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-to-do-how-to-always-be-doing-step/">What To Do? How To Always Be Doing Step</a> (Tue May 31, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking control of my stress and anxiety with breathing exercises and other activities like jumping jacks, journaling, and visualizing the results of my efforts. I'm also reminding myself to take it step by step, double-check my work, and document the small steps I take. With this approach, I'm learning to actualize my thoughts into the real world and experience the magic of being human.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/trick/">Tricks</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/collaboration/">Collaboration</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>