<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/considering-generating-a-100-ai-site-from-google-suggest/">Considering Generating a 100% AI Site From Google Suggest</a> (Wed Feb 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm embarking on a public project to create a 100% AI-generated website using free tools and no particular topics in mind. To do this, I've set up a hosted site on Github Pages, added Google Analytics Measurement ID, and filled in some basic content suggested by Google Suggest and ChatGPT. I'm looking for readers to join me on this journey and help me come up with new ideas to complete this project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-essay-on-modern-seo-a-call-to-pipulate/">An Essay on Modern SEO. A Call to Pipulate.</a> (Mon Dec 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring the effectiveness of SEO in the modern market, using data from Google Search Console and Google Analytics. I'm utilizing Python, Jupyter, and linear regression to analyze my website's keyword trends and create automated clarity-inducing reminders. By doing so, I can better understand what's driving people to my website and optimize it for success. Join me on my journey as I take a deep dive into the basics of SEO and website optimization.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-analytics-ga4-api-access-will-be-my-first-project-for-pipulate/">Google Analytics GA4 API Access Will Be My First Project for Pipulate</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to start my first project for Pipulate, which involves accessing the Google Analytics GA4 API. I'm taking a top-down and bottom-up approach to SEO, and I've named my repo GA4mageddon. I'm using the impending Google-induced panic about GA4 to create better examples and instructions for readers to entice them to click through to the blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/surviving-google-s-helpful-content-update-surviving-helpfulgeddon/">Surviving Google's Helpful Content Update (Surviving Helpfulgeddon)</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I recently tested out ChatGPT and was amazed by the results. With its help, I'm ready to start fresh and create a better site by looking at data from Google Analytics, Search Console, and others. I plan to focus on creating content that will help others learn Linux, Python, vim, and git, and will listen to feedback from my audience. Join me as I strive to differentiate my inner voice from the endless content deluge and make the most of SEO principles that still work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/doing-a-google-analytics-api-project-filtering-us-only-traffic/">Doing a Google Analytics API Project (Filtering US Only Traffic)</a> (Tue Dec 06, 2022)
<br/>I'm building a project to connect to Google Analytics via their API, and I've written code to retrieve metrics such as users, sessions, bounce rate, average session duration and pages/session. I'm also creating a text file with a list of profile IDs, segments and start/end dates for the past year, and I've written a loop to generate the start and end dates for each month. Follow along with my project to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/editing-15-homepages-at-once-in-vim/">Editing 15 Homepages at Once in vim</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>I'm editing 15 homepages at once using vim, creating necessary files and folders, and writing a configuration file for a Jekyll website. This configuration file includes a list of plugins, a theme name, an author, a permalink, a Google Analytics ID, a title, a description, and an apex - all saved in the apex directory of the website. Come read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/templatizing-google-analytics-measurement-id-in-jekyll-github-pages/">Templatizing Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID in Jekyll Github Pages</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I have developed a system using Jekyll and Liquid template language to templatize the Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID for my websites. To keep track of them, I wrote Python scripts to parse through the lines in sites.txt and create a `_config.yml` file for each website. With this system, I have a master list of my sites and a quick way to update the information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/activating-all-my-registered-domains/">Activating All My Registered Domains</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I have taken the initiative to activate all of my registered domains, creating scripts to help me organize them. I have created a sites.txt file, an edit.sh file, and have gone to Google Analytics to get new GA-4 codes. I have also moved content from one website to another, and made mikelevinseo.com its own site. Read this blog post to learn how I organized my domains and content!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-prev-next-arrows-to-github-pages-jekyll-blog-posts/">Adding Prev/Next Arrows to Github Pages Jekyll Blog Posts</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I recently created a blog slicing and dicing system and am adding previous/next links to my blog posts. To do this, I'm directly inserting them into the markdown files and using Github Pages Hacker Theme page to grab the raw code for the post.html file. I checked to make sure Google Analytics tag manager code was still being applied and copied the post.html file into the `_layouts` folder of each of my sites. Come read more about my blog slicing and dicing system!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/edit-10-blogs-homepages-or-templates-all-at-once/">Edit 10 Blogs, Homepages or Templates All At Once</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm breathing new life into MikeLev.in, creating a \_layouts folder in each repo with a default.html file to get my Google Analytics code on each site. I've also created helper-scripts to edit all my site-files at once and am putting rudimentary site-navigation links in place. I'm considering switching gears to make it about previous/next blog, so stay tuned for more updates!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-mlseo-pip-installable/">Making mlseo pip installable</a> (Wed Feb 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm using mlseo as a pip installable module to get the process of making packages into my fingers. I'm creating a package called mlseo which will include my latest techniques for pulling data from Google Analytics and Search Console. I'm setting up the settings.ini file and extracting the packages, and I'm following the nbdev instructions to install and create a Github personal access token. Come follow my journey and learn how to set up your own mlseo package!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/struggling-through-github-pages-startup-process/">Struggling Through Github Pages Startup Process</a> (Thu Aug 26, 2021)
<br/>I just finished setting up a new website on Github Pages, after a long and complicated process of setting up DNS, Git repositories, Jekyll templating, and more. I'm happy with the result, but now it's time to get to work - so I'll have to wait a couple days to enjoy the fruits of my labor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-google-analytics-to-github-io-page-with-jekyll/">Adding Google Analytics to Github.io Page with Jekyll</a> (Fri Aug 20, 2021)
<br/>I recently installed Google Analytics on my Github.io Page with Jekyll, and I'm so glad I took the time to understand the Liquid system and what was going on underneath. After a few moments of research, I was able to successfully install Google Analytics and now I'm ready to move on to the next step. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/re-launch-mikelevinseo-com-on-github-io/">(Re)Launch MikeLevinSEO.com on Github.io</a> (Fri Aug 6, 2021)
<br/>I'm excited to announce the relaunch of my blog/journal on Github.io! After finding the DNS, deleting records, and setting up the Github repository, I enabled Github Pages, added the domain to Github settings, and customized the template. To top it off, I added Google Analytics and Search Console tracking. Come check out my new blog and join me on this journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/nbdev/">nbdev</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/terminal/">Terminal</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>