<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/ascii-alice-getting-smaller-to-fit-mobile/">ASCII Alice Getting Smaller to Fit Mobile</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I installed Ubuntu 20.04 at the Windows Store to make Alice smaller and optimize the mobile DrinkMe script experience. I'm eager to see the outcome of this work, and I'm excited to share my journey with you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-ubuntu-18-04-and-ubuntu-20-04-simultaneously-under-wsl-2/">Running Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04 Simultaneously Under WSL 2</a> (Sat Sep 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my Windows taskbar to include a BASH Shell, Jupyter and Web browser, and it's become part of my daily routine. I had to decide whether to keep one copy of Linux running under WSL, so I chose to run both 18.04 and 20.04 side-by-side. Follow me as I take you through my obsessive compulsive journey of updating my taskbar and deciding which Linux OS to run.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/already-renamed-jupyme-to-wsl2lxd/">Already Renamed Jupyme to WSL2LXD</a> (Thu Sep 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently renamed my jupyme repository to wsl2lxd for improved searchability and memorability. After 15-20 years of being away from detail-oriented work, I'm back and better than ever. To further my skills, I leveraged my vim spell-checking, putting my en.utf-8.add file in my vim repo and activated an Ubuntu 20.04 under WSL to be separate from my LXD work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share how I tested Ubuntu 20.04 to see if I could easily install LXD. I found that Ubuntu 18.04 is the easier option, since it comes pre-installed with LXD and allows you to quickly get up and running. I also discuss my preference for local services over cloud resources, my advocacy for Linux and my blue-collar mechanic approach to tech literacy. Finally, I suggest JupyterLab-Desktop as a great way to learn Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/throw-all-the-meat-veggies-into-the-stew-stir-the-blog-vlog/">Throw All The Meat & Veggies Into The Stew & Stir The Blog / Vlog</a> (Fri Jun 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently wrote a blog post about my experience with downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 so I could use LXD Linux containers on WSL Windows Subsystem for Linux. To make my workflow more efficient, I created a vim keyboard macro that generates the site I'm editing and added sites to sites.csv in the skite repo. Read my blog post to find out how this game-changing experience helped me streamline my workflow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reverting-wsl2-from-ubuntu-20-04-to-18-04-to-get-lxd-containers-working/">Reverting WSL2 From Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 To Get LXD Containers Working</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently explored the process of downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 under WSL2, as well as concepts such as LXD, venv, virtualenv, tmux, screen, and Python. I discussed the importance of good fixed-file-location habits, and how LXD is similar to venv/virtualenv in terms of packaging dependencies. I also compared Docker and LXD.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-updates-kb5014699-kb5013887-lxd-on-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04/">Windows Updates KB5014699 & KB5013887 & LXD on WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>After a long update process, I realized the Windows Updates I had downloaded weren't what I was looking for. I then tried to get LXD running under WSL2 on Ubuntu 20.04 but was unsuccessful. Switching to Ubuntu 18.04 allowed me to get LXD running, but now I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I make my next video out of the arts? Read my blog post to find out what I decide!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/text editor/">Text Editor</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/html/">HTML</a></div></div>