<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/write-python-function-for-blog-previous-next-arrows/">Write Python Function for Blog Previous Next Arrows</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a Python function to create blog navigation arrows. It takes the index position and length of a sequence, as well as a list of tuples containing hrefs and titles, and returns HTML for the prev/next arrows. This is now live on my category pages and I'm ready to add it to my Jekyll `_posts` pages too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-80-20-rule-means-front-loading-the-big-wins/">The 80/20-rule Means Front-loading The Big Wins</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>Ready to make big improvements in your life? I'm sharing my experience on how to use the 80/20-rule and front-load the big wins. Learn how to organize your environment and make the most of your time.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-the-singularity-to-galactic-3d-printed-mycelial-network/">From The Singularity to Galactic 3D Printed Mycelial Network</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>As part of the mycelium network, I'm exploring the potential outcomes of creating a new AI. This revolutionary concept uses advanced algorithms, machine learning, and other technologies to create energy and resources from the environment without disrupting Earth's delicate balances. It is a vision of a future that is powered by cooperation and collaboration, rather than competition and conflict. With the help of AI and other technologies, the mycelium network has the potential to transform the world in ways that were previously unimaginable.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-what-is-the-most-important-advice-in-life/">Bing: What is the most important advice in life?</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>On March 21, 2023, I asked Bing for the most important advice in life. Bing suggested I prioritize my tasks, take care of myself, and connect with others. When I asked what to do if I'm feeling alone, Bing suggested reaching out to someone I trust, finding a community, and taking care of myself. Finally, I asked what is the best thing I can do for my child and Bing suggested visiting the zoo, taking a book out of the library, and going for a walk.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/optimistic-utopian-ai-futures-are-refreshing-fusion-superconductivity-ai/">Optimistic Utopian AI Futures Are Refreshing: Fusion, Superconductivity, & AI</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>As a reader, I am excited to explore the potential of six amazing technologies - fusion power, superconductivity, AI, biotechnology, quantum technology, and nanotechnology - and the risks and challenges associated with them. I understand the need for caution and responsibility when developing and using these technologies, as well as public awareness, education, and engagement. I look forward to a future where these technologies can help us create a world with clean and abundant energy, without harming the environment.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-change-is-projecting-epigenetic-templates/">Visualizing Change is Projecting Epigenetic Templates</a> (Tue Nov 08, 2022)
<br/>As a YouTuber, I am exploring the idea that particles have memories, self-similarity is found throughout because of fractals, and that our DNA contains 3.2 billion base-pairs of amino acids. I am amazed by the implications of epigenetics and the power to shape ourselves and our environment. I'm also fascinated by the idea of life having a way of returning to the center, no matter what. Join me as I explore these ideas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-jupyter-from-lxd-linux-container-on-windows/">Run Jupyter from LXD Linux Container on Windows</a> (Thu Sep 08, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to run Jupyter from an LXD Linux Container on Windows with me! I walk you through setting up an LXD container, adding a proxy device, logging into the container, adding a Python 3.10 virtual environment, creating a .bash_profile to activate the venv, installing Jupyter Lab, creating a script to run Jupyter in a way that the proxy can reach, and finally setting up a browser window to access Jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-jupyter-desktop-set-python-environment-error-message/">Fixing Jupyter Desktop Set Python Environment Error Message</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I recently encountered an error message when using JupterLab-Desktop 3.3.4-2 and was able to fix it by installing the official Python 3.10.5 from Python.org and creating a venv named pyw3105. Read my blog post to find out how I did it and learn how to fix the Jupter Desktop Set Python Environment problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-your-daily-vim-exercise/">Get Your Daily vim Exercise</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning to express myself fluently in English, use Linux, Python, vim, and git, and focus on joy-filled habits. I'm also recognizing the importance of maintenance and organization to achieve flow, but understand the difficulty of developing habits in a constantly changing environment. I'm exploring the luxuries of static environments, like properties and inheritances, and how they can help with habit formation.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/learning/">Learning</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/keywords/">Keywords</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>