<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-svg-images-in-markdown-cells-of-jupyter-notebooks/">Embedding SVG Images in Markdown Cells of Jupyter Notebooks</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explains how I wrote a Python program that uses the base64 module to encode an SVG image file, generates an HTML img tag with the encoded data as the src attribute, and outputs the HTML img tag as a string. This allows the image to be displayed properly in a markdown cell of a Jupyter Notebook, making it easy to reference the original file. Read on to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fetching-saving-html-from-list-of-urls-using-python/">Fetching & Saving HTML From List of URLs Using Python</a> (Tue Feb 21, 2023)
<br/>As I prepare to start my new job, I'm taking care of all the necessary tasks, including ordering a standing desk and organizing my apartment. I also attended a group meeting with my employer and got all the onboarding paperwork done. To help out a friend, I'm creating a program to scrape data from a website and store it in an Excel file, using Python and Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-could-be-super-enabling-helping-you-code-at-all/">AI Could be Super-Enabling, Helping You Code At All</a> (Thu Jan 26, 2023)
<br/>As a coding novice, I used ChatGPT to learn how to code in Python and edit videos. With the help of ChatGPT, I was able to gain the superpower of coding in Python to help me with my project. I also used OpenAI API to submit JSONL data and extract data from HTML. To store the data, I chose to use a SQLite database and DNS to translate IPs. Finally, I virtualized Linux and used a RaspberryPi-based server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/choosing-best-css-framework-for-github-pages-and-jekyll/">Choosing Best CSS Framework For Github Pages and Jekyll</a> (Mon Aug 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a CSS framework that provides a modern look, is search-friendly, has been around the longest, and allows me to produce clean, vanilla HTML code. After considering Bootstrap, Foundation, Bulma, Semantic, and UIkit, I decided to go with Foundation because it doesn't require btn classes. I activated lpvg.org on Github pages, created a `_layouts` folder and default.html file, and reminded myself to take baby steps.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/send-email-with-file-attachment-from-python/">Send Email With File Attachment From Python</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>I wrote code to enhance the sendemail.py program to include HTML and an image attachment, as well as a zipped file. I then created a program to schedule the sendmail.py file to run every 10 seconds, 5 seconds, and 1 minute, sending an email with the attached file. Read my blog post to learn more about how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recording-vim-macro-for-markdown-image-insertion/">Recording vim macro for markdown image insertion</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm hosting a livecasting event to show you how to use vim macros to quickly turn keyworded image files into the markdown required for HTML image insertion. I'll be demonstrating how to use search & replace patterns to capitalize and separate words, so you can learn how to quickly add images to your blog posts. Join me to learn this time-saving technique!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-ve-got-a-mic/">I've Got a Mic</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>I'm passionate about talking into the mic and sharing my stories. In this blog post, I'll show you how to find Carnac, record a Vim macro, and use HTML singletons. Plus, learn how to add the macro to a .vimrc file, use Vim buffers, and more. Don't miss out on this 'mic lovin' goodness!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-blogging-system-is-now-my-weekly-report-system-too/">My Blogging System Is Now My Weekly Report System Too</a> (Sat May 07, 2022)
<br/>I have created a system for writing weekly reports that is similar to how I write blog posts. I have set up the necessary files, scripts, and repository, and tested the release. I encountered a problem with the git push, but I was able to create a blog post, move it to my Github private repo, and render the markdown into HTML. Now I have a system in place to make the process flow with my vimminess!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/twitter/">Twitter</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/text-editor/">Text Editor</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>