<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-ai-auto-publishing-anything/">Disabling AI Auto-Publishing Anything</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered a problem with Jekyll when trying to produce a list of the 10 most recent posts. To solve this, I used Python to control the list iteration and created a 5 x 20 grid of the top-100 categories on my website. After testing it in Jupyter, I successfully produced a table with the top 100 categories. I also recently switched from Windows 10 to Windows 11 and was able to transfer the 'soul' of the machine, including my system setup.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-modestly-ponders-changing-expectations-in-search-industry/">Bing Modestly Ponders Changing Expectations in Search Industry</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>In this conversation with Mike Levin, I discussed the concept of customer "lock-in" in relation to Google AdWords. I explained that while AdWords users are not locked in, they are encouraged to use it because it is the most effective way to advertise on Google's search engine. We then discussed the potential disruption caused by new developments in technology that could change the search experience, and how Google needs to adapt to meet the expectations of users around the world. Finally, we discussed the discrepancy.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/made-a-python-program-to-rot13-an-id-rsa-file-for-github/">Made a Python Program to Rot13 an id_rsa file for Github</a> (Sat Nov 05, 2022)
<br/>Today, I faced a challenge while transferring an id_rsa file to a lxdwin repo. I documented my experience in a video and found a StackOverflow page with the solution. Despite this, I encountered a problem with Github recognizing my ssh public key, so I decided to ssh the keys into the repo. Read my full story to discover how I overcame this issue!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-chrome-for-linux-under-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Google Chrome for Linux Under LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Wed Sep 21, 2022)
<br/>I succeeded in getting Google Chrome up and running on my Linux system using LXD on WSL on Windows. I followed several steps to make sure the configuration settings would survive between reinstalls, and I'm thrilled to be able to launch it with google-chrome. After some hard work, I'm finally able to enjoy the fruits of my labor!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-zero-windows-to-linux-in-8-steps/">From Zero (Windows) to Linux In 8 Steps</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a series of videos to help people transition from Windows to Linux, covering topics such as uninstalling OneDrive, unpinning the taskbar, changing settings and personalization, turning off notifications and weather, and more. Plus, I'll show you what installing Linux on a Windows 10 computer looks like. Click through to find out more!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/publish/">Publish</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/joy/">Joy</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>