<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-diddle-diddle-now-neovim-s-my-fiddle/">Hey Diddle Diddle, Now NeoVim's My Fiddle</a> (Sun Apr 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting up macros in my NeoVim text editor to turn my journal entries into web pages. After 10 years of using this text editor, I'm vlogging the process and exploring new habits. As an advocate for Linux, Python, vim, and git, I still have to pay a Microsoft tax for tools like Github Pro, Github CoPilot, and Microsoft 365. I'm currently formatting the output of a new dice.py file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-namedtuple-for-each-week-you-ve-been-alive/">A NamedTuple For Each Week You've Been Alive</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the 80/20 rule, low empathy, and how the way people interact with machines is changing. I'm a 52 year old man looking for a balance between order and chaos, and I'm using JupyterLab and Python to code. I'm also suggesting journaling and tracking progress with weeks to get the most out of the experience. Join me as I explore the challenges of staying productive and organized as I age.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-miss-my-talk-with-openai-about-clickbait-headlines/">Don't Miss My Talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines!</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>On December 2, 2022, I will be giving a talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines and the top 100 clickbait headlines I have compiled. I will also discuss why writing headlines that accurately describe the content of an article is a better strategy, as well as the benefits of keeping a journal, such as increased self-awareness, improved mental health, stress reduction, enhanced problem solving skills, and better communication skills. Finally, I will explain how Vim is a powerful and flexible text editor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/say-the-magic-words-open-terminal/">Say The Magic Words: Open Terminal!</a> (Sat Jun 11, 2022)
<br/>I learned the French Drop finger magic trick from my camp counselor Mike Silver at Science Camp Watonka when I was 12 years old. Now, I'm introducing a new skill called the French Drop and Miss. Direction, closely aligned with Unix/Linux. This skill is future-proof, obsolescence resistant, and immune to disruption. It's important to not solely depend on GUIs and to focus on Unix/Linux terminal.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-don-t-want-to-blow-up/">I Don't Want To Blow Up</a> (Sun May 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I use Linux, Python, Vim and Git as my go-to tools. I'm a big fan of Bram Moolenaar's plain old Vim from 1991, as it's more future-proof and resistant to obsolescence. Are you looking to learn Vim? I'm encouraging you to do so - just type `wsl --install` in a DOS COM to get started. Vim is a powerful tool and is much more fundamental than the full web stack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-don-t-want-to-blow-up/">I Don't Want To Blow Up</a> (Sun May 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I use Linux, Python, Vim and Git as my go-to tools. I'm a big fan of Bram Moolenaar's plain old Vim from 1991, as it's more future-proof and resistant to obsolescence. Are you looking to learn Vim? I'm encouraging you to do so - just type `wsl --install` in a DOS COM to get started. Vim is a powerful tool and is much more fundamental than the full web stack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/html/">HTML</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/new-york-city/">New York City</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>