<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/more-deliberate-with-category-mapping/">More Deliberate With Category Mapping</a> (Sat May 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm optimizing my blog post categorization system by grouping common keywords into parent categories. I'm learning about YAML dictionaries and sub-dictionaries to create a nested structure for my categories. I'm also making sure to keep the list of categories as short as possible by using the lemmatized version of words. Finally, I'm working on a custom object shape to keep the categorization system running smoothly.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-svg-images-in-markdown-cells-of-jupyter-notebooks/">Embedding SVG Images in Markdown Cells of Jupyter Notebooks</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explains how I wrote a Python program that uses the base64 module to encode an SVG image file, generates an HTML img tag with the encoded data as the src attribute, and outputs the HTML img tag as a string. This allows the image to be displayed properly in a markdown cell of a Jupyter Notebook, making it easy to reference the original file. Read on to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-your-tools-are-timeless-so-are-you/">When Your Tools Are Timeless, So Are You</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>As a Subject Matter Expert (SME) at MOZ and an advocate of Linux, Python, vim & git, I am passionate about finding ways to use these technologies in my workflow. I am exploring fringe tech that should be mainstream, promoting Linux, Python, vim, and git as a minimum toolchain. I am also discussing the importance of language and how it helps machines think like us, as well as the Microsoft taxes that cannot be avoided.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-a-next-gen-seo-project/">Introducing A Next Gen SEO Project</a> (Wed Mar 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm introducing a complex project that uses Linux, browser automation, and Microsoft's implementation of Linux to automate data tasks. I'm also transitioning to Linux, Python, vim, git, and Jupyter for web development, and I'll be using a Linux VM and a web browser to access a Linux CLI from my Windows system. This will allow me to automate tasks and build a Linux server from my Windows system.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clarified-linux-python-vim-git-mission-on-homepage/">Clarified Linux, Python, vim & git Mission on Homepage</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>I'm an expert in Linux, Python, vim & git and I'm promoting Literate Programming and its connection to Jupyter, Python and Markdown. On my homepage, I've collected my work and favorite articles to make my vision and message clear. Come check it out and see what I have to offer!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-amplifies-you/">AI Amplifies You</a> (Thu Mar 02, 2023)
<br/>As a father of a 12 year old, I'm looking for ways to help them get interested in AI and technology. I've written a script called "drinkme" to set up a Linux server, and I'm creating a Pipulate server with a Jupyter Notebook for foundational tech skills. My goal is to help my child survive the coming AI craziness and learn real skills and knowledge. Come explore how AI can be used to help your child!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/analyzing-the-karate-club-3d-node-graph/">Analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a 3D rotating shape from a website using Linux Jupyter on Windows. I'm analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph and have written code to plot it. I'm exploring NetworkX, a Python library for creating and manipulating graphs, to create a networkx.classes.graph.Graph object and plotting nodes and edges in 3D space. I'm using Plotly to generate a 3D rotating network node graph with different colored nodes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-visualize-websites-as-network-node-graphs/">Let's Visualize Websites as Network Node Graphs</a> (Tue Dec 27, 2022)
<br/>I've been researching the best way to visualize large link and node graphs in Jupyter notebooks, comparing the advantages and disadvantages of using NetworkX and Bokeh, and have decided to try out Plotly. Over the holiday I made progress and outlined a plan to create 3D interactive visualizations in JupyterLab. I'm also teaching stakeholders how to access data on their own by setting up an instance of Linux WSL, installing nodejs and jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-essay-on-modern-seo-a-call-to-pipulate/">An Essay on Modern SEO. A Call to Pipulate.</a> (Mon Dec 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring the effectiveness of SEO in the modern market, using data from Google Search Console and Google Analytics. I'm utilizing Python, Jupyter, and linear regression to analyze my website's keyword trends and create automated clarity-inducing reminders. By doing so, I can better understand what's driving people to my website and optimize it for success. Join me on my journey as I take a deep dive into the basics of SEO and website optimization.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/joining-data-between-spreadsheet-tabs-better-than-vlookup/">Joining Data Between Spreadsheet Tabs Better Than VLookup</a> (Fri Nov 04, 2022)
<br/>Discover how I joined data between spreadsheet tabs without using VLookup or Pivot Tables. I explored connecting to Google Sheets and the OAuth2 enabled GSheets API, but I eventually figured out a way to save the data as an .xlsx file and load individual tabs using Pandas. Now I'm exploring the best way to log into Google services from Jupyter - read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-a-tiktok-script/">Working on a TikTok Script</a> (Thu Sep 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm an infotech carpenter teaching people how to become an Information Age Samurai by mastering the right skillset and toolset. I'm providing a script to install Jupyter on Linux, and a guide to help people navigate the dense infotech forest. I'm also sharing my experience to help others find their way in life, and I'm learning to plan my recovery from distractions as a sort of performance-art.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-ubuntu-18-04-and-ubuntu-20-04-simultaneously-under-wsl-2/">Running Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04 Simultaneously Under WSL 2</a> (Sat Sep 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my Windows taskbar to include a BASH Shell, Jupyter and Web browser, and it's become part of my daily routine. I had to decide whether to keep one copy of Linux running under WSL, so I chose to run both 18.04 and 20.04 side-by-side. Follow me as I take you through my obsessive compulsive journey of updating my taskbar and deciding which Linux OS to run.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/install-script-and-start-script-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Install Script and Start Script for Jupyter on LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Fri Sep 16, 2022)
<br/>I've created a script that enables Jupyter to run on LXD on WSL on Windows. I've included an install script for the desktop, a start script for when the system reboots, and some other commands to start Jupyter in the background. I'm currently testing the installation process to make sure everything works properly. Come read my blog post to learn more about this exciting development!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-automated-install-script-for-lxd-jupyter-on-wsl/">Writing Automated Install Script for LXD & Jupyter on WSL</a> (Wed Sep 14, 2022)
<br/>This article describes my attempt to use JupyterLab under LXC and my progress on an automated install script for LXD and Jupyter on WSL. I'm also trying to simulate the tftp tricks I've done in Levinux and make my own bit optional graphics build. Read on to find out more about my journey and how it can help you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-down-the-wsl-to-lxd-install-script-rabbit-hole/">Going Down the WSL to LXD Install Script Rabbit Hole</a> (Mon Sep 12, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project to create a bash install script that will set up a Jupyter server on a Windows machine. I'm writing the script, installing it from an Ubuntu 18.04 instance with LXD, creating a PowerShell script, and setting up a ~/repos folder and jupyme repo. Follow my journey as I build this project and learn along the way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-first-version-of-install-scripts-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl/">Writing First Version of Install Scripts for Jupyter on LXD on WSL</a> (Fri Sep 09, 2022)
<br/>I'm helping people become more independent of desktop software and be able to use Linux terminal for their day-to-day tasks. To do this, I set up a new environment on LXD on WSL, trimmed my public Github repos, and created a new repo with an install script. I'm also crafting a message for my public website that will appeal to people in general and capture their attention. Come and learn how to become more independent and use Linux terminal for your daily tasks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-jupyter-from-lxd-linux-container-on-windows/">Run Jupyter from LXD Linux Container on Windows</a> (Thu Sep 08, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to run Jupyter from an LXD Linux Container on Windows with me! I walk you through setting up an LXD container, adding a proxy device, logging into the container, adding a Python 3.10 virtual environment, creating a .bash_profile to activate the venv, installing Jupyter Lab, creating a script to run Jupyter in a way that the proxy can reach, and finally setting up a browser window to access Jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/thinking-through-jupyter-video/">Thinking Through Jupyter Video</a> (Thu Sep 08, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a Jupyter video tutorial that will make it easy for people to understand. I'll replace the data folder with a symbolic link, shorten the slide, and create a new repo to curl from. I'll also give each sequence/playlist a strong nickname and use single words to make it easier to follow. Join me on this journey and learn more about Jupyter!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-ready-to-teach-installing-jupyter-right/">Getting Ready to Teach Installing Jupyter Right</a> (Wed Sep 07, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up Linux containers under WSL for testing purposes, using a magical incantation to install Jupyter. I'm running into issues with the container having a different internal IP than the one on Windows-side, so I'm researching commands like lxc config and jupyter server to bridge, NAT, and proxy. After setting a password on Jupyter, I was able to access the LX - come read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-sending-email-in-jupyter-to-sending-email-in-linux-service/">From Sending Email in Jupyter to Sending Email in Linux Service</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning Zawinski's Law, Python's SMTP library, and systemd. I'm using JupyterLab to show how to work with mail-from and mail-to files, move them into a Linux container pulse folder, and create a sendmail.py file. Come read my blog post to find out how I'm testing my work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-jupyter-desktop-set-python-environment-error-message/">Fixing Jupyter Desktop Set Python Environment Error Message</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I recently encountered an error message when using JupterLab-Desktop 3.3.4-2 and was able to fix it by installing the official Python 3.10.5 from Python.org and creating a venv named pyw3105. Read my blog post to find out how I did it and learn how to fix the Jupter Desktop Set Python Environment problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/education-of-the-woogle-bug/">Education Of The Woogle Bug</a> (Sat Jun 18, 2022)
<br/>Yesterday was a difficult day, but I'm determined to move forward. I'm rewriting my content management system and conditioning my mind to be kind and gentle. I'm supplementing my income while getting closer to my child, and using various tools to debug and fix a problem with a script. I wrote a program to create websites with Python and I'm using the blogslicer program to create blogs for multiple websites.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-macro-to-format-markdown-poetry/">vim Macro to Format Markdown Poetry</a> (Fri May 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm talking about how to use vim to break free from Microsoft, how they are trying to steal Jupyter's features, and why their attempt to create their own version of Unix, Xenix, flopped. I'm also discussing how writing in vim is like driving and how it can free up your executive function for more difficult tasks, and how writing every day can help you become more proficient with your tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-jupyter-notebook-to-pip-installable-package-in-one-go/">From Jupyter Notebook to pip Installable Package In One Go</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>Join me as I livecast the process of creating and releasing a Python package from a Jupyter Notebook. I'll be using the desktop version of JupyterLab and taking you through every step of the process. Don't miss out - tune in now!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-importance-of-digital-housekeeping/">The Importance of Digital Housekeeping</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm trying to get my mlseo project up and running, and I recently had a discussion with my wife about the importance of digital housekeeping. I'm taking steps to reduce daily stress and increase happiness, like creating a github folder, deleting unnecessary items, and taking advantage of AeroSnap. I'm also trying to upgrade my JupyterLab and wondering if the desktop version will be upgraded too. I'm currently on Jupyter 3.3.2-2, but</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/ubuntu/">Ubuntu</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/container/">Container</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>