<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss Microsoft's Embrace & Displace strategy and how it relates to Linux. I explore how this strategy can be used to benefit you, by embracing Linux and its timeless tools, and avoiding the pitfalls of planned obsolescence. Learn how to use vi, vim, NeoVim, the command-line, git, and ssh to stay competitive and never be displaced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moved-1-long-page-version-of-journal-md-to-drafts/">Moved 1-long-page version of journal.md to `_drafts`</a> (Sat Apr 29, 2023)
<br/>I have moved the 1-long-page version of my journal.md file to the `_drafts` folder, allowing me to keep posts unpublished without giving them a yaml title. This is a great way to keep posts out of Github publishing space, while still allowing them to be sliced & diced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/allow-github-to-use-my-code-snippets-for-product-improvements/">Allow GitHub To Use My Code Snippets For Product Improvements</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently uncovered the power of AI and put it to work for me in my work-journal. To get the most out of these tools, I configured my GitHub Copilot settings in my JetBrains IDE or on GitHub.com. I'm excited to see how GitHub will use my code snippets to improve their products and how my journal.md entries will be transformed. See what AI can do for me - click through to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/creating-github-repo-specifically-for-copilot-explorations/">Creating Github Repo Specifically For Copilot Explorations</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I have updated my Github repo and am now creating one specifically for Copilot explorations. I have created files such APIs as Instapaper to list Bookmarks, Twitter to list Tweets, YouTube to list Videos, and Github to list Repos. I am using various tools to express myself by transforming the output of theses systems into Web content, using AI to coach me. Learn how I'm using Instapaper, YouTube, Twitter, and Github with AI to explore.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/continuing-my-silent-live-streaming-journaling-adventure/">Continuing My Silent Live-Streaming Journaling Adventure</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm live-streaming my journey of journaling and making the argument for keeping a single text file for life. I'm also creating a Github repo with code examples, watching cartoons with my kid, and making them food. I've written sample code and converted them into Python dict objects, and I now have a Jupyter Notebook to share with the community. Join me on my journey and explore the possibilities of journaling and coding!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/qnap-hybrid-sync-backup-warnings-failed-to-copy-all-data-and-attributes/">QNAP Hybrid Sync Backup Warnings Failed to copy all data and attributes</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>After experiencing a terrible headache, I decided to err on the side of caution and turn off the Copilot plugin for .txt files. I then noticed a warning that my NAS backup had failed to copy all data and attributes, and after logging in by SSH, I discovered the issue was with unsupported filenames. I resolved to fix it later - read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/easier-illustration-technique-i-seek-may-be-mermaid/">Easier Illustration Technique I Seek May Be Mermaid</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered Mermaid, a JavaScript-based diagramming and charting tool that makes illustration and diagramming for SEO purposes easier. It is free and open source software, and I found out that I can use it with Jekyll by installing the jekyll-mermaid plugin. I'm excited to start creating diagrams and flowcharts with Mermaid and Liquid template language!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-a-systemd-service-with-chatgpt/">Making a SystemD Service With ChatGPT</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>I'm writing a systemd service that uses GNU screen to run a python script in the background. In this blog post, I share the details of the service, including the command to be run, the user account to run the service as, and the environment variables to be set. I also explain the meaning of the word "majordomo" and how to create a nbdev version 2 project in a folder called majordaemo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/like-microsoft-always-said-try-to-put-a-bing-in-the-universe/">Like Microsoft Always Said, Try To Put a Bing In The Universe</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert, I love helping people find what they need online, but I despise how it is used to promote and shill poor-quality products. In the past, Google encouraged the creation of large websites with interconnected content to make them more discoverable, but this caused a lot of technical debt. Microsoft is now taking advantage of this by controlling Windows, Github, VSCode, and the default browser on the desktop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-world-has-changed-because-systemd-on-windows/">The World Has Changed Because SystemD on Windows</a> (Wed Jan 25, 2023)
<br/>As I reflect on how much the world has changed in recent months, I'm struck by the impact of AI and the integration of Linux services (systemd) into Windows 10 and 11. This opens up a world of possibilities for mainstream development, without relying on Microsoft back-slashes. Microsoft's purchase of Github for 7.5 billion dollars has also had a major effect on development habits. I urge readers to click through to learn more about the implications of these changes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-added-linux-graphics-and-systemd-to-wsl-for-windows-10/">Microsoft Added Linux Graphics and Systemd to WSL for Windows 10</a> (Sun Nov 27, 2022)
<br/>I recently installed Linux graphics and Systemd on Windows 10, and now I'm exploring the aftermath. I'm researching how to make the vGPU accessible and usable, mapping locations and environment variables, and setting up the WAYLAND_DISPLAY and XDG_RUNTIME_DIR. I'm looking into lxdwin script, Levinux/Getonux projects, and lxc config set to configure the jupyter environment. Join me as I explore the aftermath of this installation!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/made-a-python-program-to-rot13-an-id-rsa-file-for-github/">Made a Python Program to Rot13 an id_rsa file for Github</a> (Sat Nov 05, 2022)
<br/>Today, I faced a challenge while transferring an id_rsa file to a lxdwin repo. I documented my experience in a video and found a StackOverflow page with the solution. Despite this, I encountered a problem with Github recognizing my ssh public key, so I decided to ssh the keys into the repo. Read my full story to discover how I overcame this issue!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/cast-a-homunculus-majordomo-to-help-run-your-life/">Cast a Homunculus Majordomo to Help Run Your Life</a> (Fri Oct 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking up Linux, Python, Vim, and Git as if they were tools in a carpenter's toolbox, and learning to use FOSS instead of cloud services. I'm creating performance art with these principles, doing real-time idea-capture, aligning small steps to feedback loops, and using GitHub and GitLab. I'm trying to figure out the best way to approach learning new tech tools and advocate the use of Linux, Python, Vim and Git.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-down-the-wsl-to-lxd-install-script-rabbit-hole/">Going Down the WSL to LXD Install Script Rabbit Hole</a> (Mon Sep 12, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project to create a bash install script that will set up a Jupyter server on a Windows machine. I'm writing the script, installing it from an Ubuntu 18.04 instance with LXD, creating a PowerShell script, and setting up a ~/repos folder and jupyme repo. Follow my journey as I build this project and learn along the way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-the-lpvg-message-on-point-with-a-series-of-1-minute-videos/">Get the LPvg Message On-Point with a series of 1-minute videos</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I have been an SEO for 25 years and am now creating a series of 1-minute videos to grow my presence on YouTube. I'm using heavily edited videos, optimized for keywords and titles, to spread my message and mission. I decided to promote the idea of Linux, Python, vim and git as a single platform for development and delivery, and called it the LPvg movement. Join me as I share my 25 years of SEO experience to help you grow your presence on YouTube.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/choosing-best-css-framework-for-github-pages-and-jekyll/">Choosing Best CSS Framework For Github Pages and Jekyll</a> (Mon Aug 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a CSS framework that provides a modern look, is search-friendly, has been around the longest, and allows me to produce clean, vanilla HTML code. After considering Bootstrap, Foundation, Bulma, Semantic, and UIkit, I decided to go with Foundation because it doesn't require btn classes. I activated lpvg.org on Github pages, created a `_layouts` folder and default.html file, and reminded myself to take baby steps.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-share-an-ssh-key-with-linux-container-to-eliminate-passwords/">How to Share an SSH Key with Linux Container to Eliminate Passwords</a> (Fri Aug 05, 2022)
<br/>I recently faced a challenge when trying to get code up to Github from a newly created Linux container. To solve this, I figured out a way to share my SSH keys from my host system to the container, eliminating the need for passwords. To help others, I created a video and shared the code on Github. Learn how to share SSH keys from a host system to a Linux container with my easy-to-follow guide.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-broken-jekyll-rouge-code-color-coding-in-github-pages-theme/">Fixing Broken Jekyll Rouge Code Color Coding in Github Pages Theme</a> (Sat Jul 30, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed the theme of my website, MikeLev.in, and had to make some tweaks to get the programming code color-coding working properly. After some research, I found the .css file I needed and made one entry in my style.css file. With these changes, the fancy color-coding is now working on my website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-into-lxd-wsl2-home-once-you-ve-moved-into-containers/">Moving Into LXD WSL2 ~/ "Home" Once You've Moved Into Containers</a> (Wed Jul 20, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explains how I am using Linux Containers (LXD) and WSL2 to create a comfortable and productive home, inspired by a YouTube video about a child prodigy. I'm detailing the steps I'm taking to mount my ~/github and ~/.ssh files to my container, codifying the steps to create a container, setting up a script to put a few files directly in ~/ including a .bash_profile, creating a "helpers" repo, installing git and python</li>
<li><a href="/blog/putting-mlseo-on-subdomain-of-mikelevinseo-com/">Putting mlseo on subdomain of MikeLevinSEO.com</a> (Sat May 21, 2022)
<br/>I recently set up a subdomain for my website, MikeLevinSEO.com, and was thrilled to see that everything went smoothly. I love it when things are this easy, and I'm always looking for new challenges. Check out my blog post to learn more about my journey and how I set up the subdomain.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/upgrading-jupyterlab-pip-installs/">Upgrading JupyterLab pip installs</a> (Tue May 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a way to upgrade my pip installs on JupyterLab and Jupyter Notebooks. I found a solution! I cloned mlseo from Github and used 10_requirements.ipynb. To learn more, I watched a video tutorial on YouTube. Check out my blog post to get the full scoop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-vim-to-keep-one-journal-for-life/">Use vim to Keep One Journal For Life</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>I've been using Vim to journal and it has changed my life. It's difficult to learn, but the skills and muscle memory I've gained are permanent. Writing in Vim has helped me to better understand myself, and I've been able to use version control systems like Github to keep my .vimrc file with me wherever I go. I've also been learning new vim-tricks like buffers and registers to increase my power. Finally, I've created a single file, journal.md</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-blogging-system-is-now-my-weekly-report-system-too/">My Blogging System Is Now My Weekly Report System Too</a> (Sat May 07, 2022)
<br/>I have created a system for writing weekly reports that is similar to how I write blog posts. I have set up the necessary files, scripts, and repository, and tested the release. I encountered a problem with the git push, but I was able to create a blog post, move it to my Github private repo, and render the markdown into HTML. Now I have a system in place to make the process flow with my vimminess!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bopping-between-python-bash-scripts-no-biggie/">Bopping Between Python & Bash Scripts No Biggie</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved my Wordpress site off of my HostMonster account and exported the content as markdown. To re-publish the content, I used Github Pages and managed the blog content across 15 sites with a single journal.md file and a bash file. To make the process easier, I wrote a Python script, make_helpers, to manage the sites.txt file and change the order of the file locations. Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-github-ci-nbdev-install-git-hooks/">Disabling Github CI nbdev_install_git_hooks</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my release script using a bash loop and asked myself a few questions to help me decide what the next steps should be. After disabling Github CI nbdev_install_git_hooks and running my release script, I decided the best place to host my project was mikelevinseo.com. Read my blog post to find out how I got there and what I did next.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moved-whatsametafor-io-blog-content-here/">Moved WhatsaMetaFor.io Blog Content Here</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I've moved my blog to MikeLev.in, a better platform for hosting my blog. I'm also learning Jekyll and Liquid, two powerful tools that will give me more control over my site. Come check out my blog and see how I'm using them!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/turning-repo-into-nbdev-project/">Turning Repo into nbdev Project</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I created a GitHub repo for my project, blogslicer, and connected it to my local directory. After editing the settings.ini file, I moved and renamed the notebook into the repo, added the necessary cells and comments for nbdev, and attempted to publish the project. Finally, I altered pythonically.com to not use index.md as the journal. Read my blog post to learn how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-importance-of-digital-housekeeping/">The Importance of Digital Housekeeping</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm trying to get my mlseo project up and running, and I recently had a discussion with my wife about the importance of digital housekeeping. I'm taking steps to reduce daily stress and increase happiness, like creating a github folder, deleting unnecessary items, and taking advantage of AeroSnap. I'm also trying to upgrade my JupyterLab and wondering if the desktop version will be upgraded too. I'm currently on Jupyter 3.3.2-2, but</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-home-folder-vs-linux-home-folder-under-wsl/">Windows Home Folder vs. Linux Home Folder Under WSL</a> (Wed Apr 13, 2022)
<br/>As an experienced user of tech-tools, I have established conventions for storing files in my local system and online. I use the "home" folder of the operating system as my starting point, and I'm also utilizing the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to access the Linux home folder. I'm currently considering what audience my writing should appeal to, and have identified two primary groups. Read my blog post to learn more about my strategies for organizing and using tech-tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/">Teaching My Wife vim</a> (Sun Apr 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm teaching my wife vim, which I use to copy and paste text files and back up code to Github. I've been using vim for decades, and I'm excited to help my wife learn this timeless technology. I overcame my own negative experience with vim to understand its importance, and I'm enjoying the meaningful experience of helping my wife learn it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/okay-i-m-finally-keeping-audiences-in-mind/">Okay, I'm Finally Keeping Audiences In Mind</a> (Thu Apr 7, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating journal entries for an audience, with the help of WhatsaMetaFor.io and the mlseo package. I'm using metaphors such as the 80/20 rule and rabbit hole evaluations to stay focused and productive. I recently took a risk and explored the nbdev rabbit hole, which led me to create a Github repository and a script to prepare my project for release. Join me on my journey and read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-as-performance-art/">Journaling As Performance Art</a> (Fri Feb 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a performance art piece that auto-publishes my journal entries on Github.io. I'm also building a get_responses function that takes a list of URLs or tuples and returns a list of tuples. I'm testing it by providing it with a list of URLs and a function and checking the output. My goal is to get responses from a list of URLs and assign them either 'foo' or 'bar', then return them as a list. For example, when</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-mlseo-pip-installable/">Making mlseo pip installable</a> (Wed Feb 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm using mlseo as a pip installable module to get the process of making packages into my fingers. I'm creating a package called mlseo which will include my latest techniques for pulling data from Google Analytics and Search Console. I'm setting up the settings.ini file and extracting the packages, and I'm following the nbdev instructions to install and create a Github personal access token. Come follow my journey and learn how to set up your own mlseo package!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/jekyll/">Jekyll</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/jupyterlab/">JupyterLab</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>