<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/moz-links-api-touch-every-endpoint-in-python/">MOZ Links API, Touch Every Endpoint in Python</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>This article provides an introduction to using the MOZ Links API with Python. It covers how to import resources, load login credentials, configure variables, and make API requests. It also includes code to list the available sub-endpoints, provide human-friendly labels, and show example requests for each endpoint. Finally, it includes a function to hit the API and a code snippet to store the response in a SQLite database.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/finding-a-site-s-popular-subdomain-with-a-redirect-chain-resolver/">Finding a Site's Popular Subdomain With a Redirect Chain Resolver</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I created a mini-project to find the most popular subdomain of a site using a redirect chain resolver, Requests library, and a blacklist filter. After excluding certain sites, I was able to pull data from 53 sites. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-many-roads-must-a-man-walk-down-before-microsoft-gets-you-to-bing/">How many roads must a man walk down before Microsoft gets you to Bing?</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>As a new laptop owner, I'm exploring my options for browsers and chat. I'm considering switching to Chrome, but I'm intrigued by Edge's features. After doing some research, I've learned that there are many paths to Bing chat. Read my blog post to learn more about my experience with my new laptop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/can-large-language-models-help-you-learn-math/">Can Large Language Models Help You Learn Math?</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm talking to Bing about how to learn math quickly and effectively. We discussed general tips, Khan Academy, and how to convert word problems and data into calculus formulas. I also discovered Symbolab's ms Calculator, which I'm using to analyze SERP data and identify trends in the directionality of URLs and websites. Join me on my journey to learn math and uncover insights from SERP data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fetching-saving-html-from-list-of-urls-using-python/">Fetching & Saving HTML From List of URLs Using Python</a> (Tue Feb 21, 2023)
<br/>As I prepare to start my new job, I'm taking care of all the necessary tasks, including ordering a standing desk and organizing my apartment. I also attended a group meeting with my employer and got all the onboarding paperwork done. To help out a friend, I'm creating a program to scrape data from a website and store it in an Excel file, using Python and Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/one-penguin-turns-and-says-to-the-other-you-know-it-s-funny/">One Penguin Turns and Says to The Other, You Know It's Funny...</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm an SEO, and I'm reflecting on the incredible technology that has allowed us to evolve over time. I'm exploring the impact of GNU licenses and the contributions of Ken Thompson, Linux Torvalds and Richard Matthew Stallman, as well as the implications of artificial intelligence. I'm also reminiscing about my journey from Commodore to Scala to Conners Communications, and my creation of HitTail, to my current position in New York City.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-that-foss-seo-book/">Start That FOSS SEO Book</a> (Sun Jan 29, 2023)
<br/>On January 29, 2023, I committed to writing a FOSS SEO Book. I'm learning how to use Twitter to best resonate my message and build an audience. I've started the project on the URL https://twitter.com/miklevin/status/1619125800477020160 and I'm dedicated to seeing it through. Follow my journey and join the discussion!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/deep-breath-before-keyword-histogram-clustering/">Deep Breath Before Keyword Histogram Clustering</a> (Sun Jan 22, 2023)
<br/>As I explore the potential of machine learning to optimize my blog content, I am considering changes to my domain URLs to appeal to search and AI systems. Additionally, I plan to create an MLGL license and a heartbeat tech system, and use Linux commands to keep my laptop and server instances in sync. By leveraging my laptop computing power to analyze server data, I am confident I can create a more effective blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-tuple-keys/">An Ode Tuple Keys</a> (Sat Jan 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm downloading an update for Windows 10 Version 22H2 and transitioning to Linux, using the power of NT's "rings of protection". I'm running Web browser automation under Microsoft Playwright and using iPython Notebooks under JupyterLab running on Linux. I'm also exploring the usefulness of tuples in Python, and looping through a database of URLs to extract data and create a table which I'm writing to a parquet file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/joining-urls-across-ga-gsc-majestic/">Joining URLs across GA, GSC & Majestic</a> (Tue Jan 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm embarking on a project to create a master-list of URLs with Majestic SEO link data, using sqldict, list comprehensions, fstrings, JupyterLab, Linux, Windows, and async Python page-fetching. I'm using client.get(url) to retrieve data from a table, and have printed out the data to confirm it was correctly retrieved. Come join me on my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/analyzing-the-karate-club-3d-node-graph/">Analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a 3D rotating shape from a website using Linux Jupyter on Windows. I'm analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph and have written code to plot it. I'm exploring NetworkX, a Python library for creating and manipulating graphs, to create a networkx.classes.graph.Graph object and plotting nodes and edges in 3D space. I'm using Plotly to generate a 3D rotating network node graph with different colored nodes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/surviving-google-s-helpful-content-update-surviving-helpfulgeddon/">Surviving Google's Helpful Content Update (Surviving Helpfulgeddon)</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I recently tested out ChatGPT and was amazed by the results. With its help, I'm ready to start fresh and create a better site by looking at data from Google Analytics, Search Console, and others. I plan to focus on creating content that will help others learn Linux, Python, vim, and git, and will listen to feedback from my audience. Join me as I strive to differentiate my inner voice from the endless content deluge and make the most of SEO principles that still work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tried-to-start-a-project/">Tried To Start a Project</a> (Sun Oct 02, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm taking the plunge and starting a project I've been putting off - importing my MikeLev.in repo from WordPress. I'm considering giving up dates in the URLs so that blog posts look evergreen, but I'm wondering if I can selectively override the URL-generating system for individual blog posts. Join me as I take this journey and find out what happens next!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-multiple-blogs-within-one-github-pages-site/">Planning Multiple Blogs Within One Github Pages Site</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning to use Github Pages to host multiple blogs in one site, and I'm considering changes to my old content and URLs, as well as adding tags, a "big list" of blog posts, pagination, and thumbnail embeds. My goal is to create a website that provides the wisdom of the ages, allowing for objective thought and accessible through any device or tablet. Come explore my digital portal and join me in creating a space of freedom and objectivity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-seo-step-1-persistent-dictionaries/">Python SEO Step #1: Persistent Dictionaries</a> (Wed May 25, 2022)
<br/>In this session, I will teach you how to use Python for SEO, including how to target keywords, collect data, and use machine learning algorithms. We will use JupyterLab, Python dictionaries, and a context manager to eliminate extra code. I will also discuss SqliteDict, a free and open source SQL database, as a key/value system. Learn how to use URLs as keys in key/value pair systems, and gain a great understanding of how to use</li>
<li><a href="/blog/stop-using-stop-words-when-they-reverse-meaning/">Stop Using Stop-Words When They Reverse Meaning</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently wrote a post about stopwords and noticed that the title was getting distorted in the URL. To fix this, I wrote some code to strip out all stopwords and create a post with a more appropriate URL. This code also creates a folder to store the posts and generates a blog.md file with a list of all the posts. Read my blog post to learn more about how I fixed this issue!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/massaging-10-sites-into-shape-at-once/">Massaging 10 Sites Into Shape At Once</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently optimized my Jekyll blog post URLs by removing stopwords, and I wanted to roll out the changes across all my sites. To make the process faster, I created a script that I could execute from Linux on Windows. With this script, I was able to quickly and easily make the same changes across all my sites. Read more to learn how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/removing-stopwords-from-jekyll-blog-urls/">Removing Stopwords From Jekyll Blog URLs</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently completed a 15-year project, blogslicer, as part of my ELPGD (every little project gets done) mentality. I used Linux, Python, vim, and git to create the program, and now I'm incorporating a feature to remove stopwords from Jekyll blog URLs using the Python library, nltk. I'm writing code to create a blog post with a given title, slug, and path, which will generate a journal.md file with a table</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-control-urls-and-links-in-jekyll/">How To Control URLs and Links in Jekyll</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm blogging using Jekyll and Github Pages and have just made some changes to the theme. I'm now following a DigitalOcean tutorial to control URLs and links in Jekyll - hoping for successful changes to propagate soon! Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-as-performance-art/">Journaling As Performance Art</a> (Fri Feb 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a performance art piece that auto-publishes my journal entries on Github.io. I'm also building a get_responses function that takes a list of URLs or tuples and returns a list of tuples. I'm testing it by providing it with a list of URLs and a function and checking the output. My goal is to get responses from a list of URLs and assign them either 'foo' or 'bar', then return them as a list. For example, when</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/openai/">OpenAI</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/wsl2/">WSL2</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>