<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/permission-denied-publickey-fatal-could-not-read-from-remote-repository/">Permission denied publickey fatal Could not read from remote repository</a> (Fri Nov 04, 2022)
<br/>I encountered a problem when trying to git clone a repository from an LXD Linux Container running on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). After discovering the container was running in unprivileged mode, I changed it to privileged mode with the lxc config command and rebooted. This fixed the file permissions issue and allowed me to successfully git clone the repository. Read more about my experience and how I solved the problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-automated-script-on-nas-24x7-under-lxd-container/">Running Automated Script on NAS 24x7 Under LXD Container</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm documenting my journey of learning about Container Station and LXD, and how I successfully set up a long-running script in a Linux Container on my QNAP NAS. I've already created two YouTube videos to document the process, and now I'm working on changing the script into a Python one and making it do something to remind me of something daily. Follow my journey and learn how to set up your own Linux Container!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-automated-install-script-for-lxd-jupyter-on-wsl/">Writing Automated Install Script for LXD & Jupyter on WSL</a> (Wed Sep 14, 2022)
<br/>This article describes my attempt to use JupyterLab under LXC and my progress on an automated install script for LXD and Jupyter on WSL. I'm also trying to simulate the tftp tricks I've done in Levinux and make my own bit optional graphics build. Read on to find out more about my journey and how it can help you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-the-lxd-lxc-command-line-api/">Figuring Out The LXD/LXC Command-line API</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>As a Linux user, I recently received a notice that my LXC container is unsupported. To learn the LXD/LXC command-line API, I discovered the command `lxc exec instance_name -- command` to execute commands in the LXD image, `lxc list` to view containers, `lxc start foo` to start one, and `lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu` to log.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/qnap-container-station-lxc-end-of-support-notification-move-to-lxd/">Qnap Container Station Lxc End Of Support Notification, Move To Lxd</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>As a QNAP NAS user, I recently received a notification that LXC files are no longer supported and I must transition to LXD. This left me with the need to do some research, which I have documented in this blog post. Read on to learn more about my journey and the results of my research.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sun-microsystem-s-zettabyte-file-system-opensolaris-zfs-under-wsl2/">Sun Microsystem's Zettabyte File System (OpenSolaris ZFS) Under WSL2</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm installing OpenSolaris ZFS as part of a larger effort to have access to all the best developer stuff on my Linux WSL2 system. I ran into some errors while trying to get LXC and LXD running, but I was able to get everything working with the help of the 'wsl --help' command. I'm excited to have LXD running under WSL and am looking forward to the next livestream which will be about developing Linux system services with LXD.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/desktop/">Desktop</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/progress/">Progress</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>