<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/plotting-a-post-scarcity-future-for-humanity-with-chatgpt/">Plotting a Post-Scarcity Future for Humanity with ChatGPT</a> (Tue Feb 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the x10, x100 rule of perception and how it might replace Google. With OpenAI's release of the first AI in 2022, I'm looking at how ChatGPT can help me create an AI sidekick persona and a roadmap for success. I'm also advocating for free and open-source software and the power of combining human abilities with technology. Join me as I discuss how to create a sustainable retirement gig.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/much-starts-with-the-ability-to-create-and-use-local-caches/">Much Starts With the Ability To Create and Use Local Caches</a> (Thu Dec 01, 2022)
<br/>I have been exploring Microsoft's implementation of systemd under wsl and have had mixed results. To ensure self worth and independence, I suggest investing in free and open source software (FOSS) and using caches, such as a SQLite .db file, to ensure persistence. I have been exploring the use of local caches for short-term memory and for storing variables used in programs, and share my experiences to help others.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/october-first-no-gamma-burst-so-far-so-good/">October First No Gamma Burst... So Far So Good.</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>As I move to New York City on October 1, 2022, I'm determined to make the most of the opportunities, no matter the cost of living. Despite any filter events that have come my way, I'm staying positive and hopeful for the future. I'm grateful for my survival and want to reach a high level of prosperity. Join me as I document my journey to success in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-where-i-reversed-the-ascii-rabbit/">This Is Where I Reversed The ASCII Rabbit</a> (Wed Aug 31, 2022)
<br/>On August 31, 2022, I used vim block select and the command "![Space]rev" to create a new ASCII rabbit, running in the right direction. I was so proud of my work that I updated my public journal banner with the new ASCII rabbit - come read about my journey and see the new banner!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-m-mike-levin-helping-you-fight-obsolescence/">I'm Mike Levin helping you fight obsolescence</a> (Fri Aug 19, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, and I'm hard at work overhauling my website, MikeLev.in, with the help of simplecss.org. I'm also creating videos to help others fight obsolescence in their technical skills. Come join me as I introduce people to Linux and vim, and show them how to install Linux on their Windows systems with wsl --install in Powershell. Today is the day to take control of your technical skills!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fairly-certain-i-had-a-brush-with-catknappers/">Fairly Certain I Had a Brush With Catknappers</a> (Sun Jul 03, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved and my cat Lynnie escaped during the transfer. After suspecting someone had been in my house and broken up the cat treats, I feared someone was taking advantage of the situation. I posted a plea on a community Facebook group and, sure enough, my cat returned 10 minutes later. My neighbor had warned me of bad luck for reworking a stone wall and I suspected they had taken my cat. Read this blog post to find out how I got my cat back.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/upgrading-jupyterlab-pip-installs/">Upgrading JupyterLab pip installs</a> (Tue May 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a way to upgrade my pip installs on JupyterLab and Jupyter Notebooks. I found a solution! I cloned mlseo from Github and used 10_requirements.ipynb. To learn more, I watched a video tutorial on YouTube. Check out my blog post to get the full scoop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/friday-the-13th-2022-kb5013624-cumulative-update-for-net/">Friday The 13th 2022 KB5013624 Cumulative Update for .NET</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>Having trouble with my internet connection, I realize it was the KB5013624 update for .NET. After researching, I find it's a phishing vulnerability patch, but can't find more information. I decide to let it install, fearing it might be the Windows 11 update I'm not ready for. Relieved to find out it's not, I make a mental note to upgrade to Windows.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/message/">Message</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/development/">Development</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>