<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rid-yourself-of-imposter-syndrome-and-start-living-your-best-life/">Rid Yourself of Imposter Syndrome and Start Living Your Best Life</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I never really became an entrepreneur, but I do use their tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git to build my projects and occasionally consider Kickstarting campaign. I no longer suffer from imposter syndrome, as I have learned that I am good enough and can be proud of my work. I now show others that it is possible to follow their dreams and make a difference, without being an assholepreneur. LPvg gives me the tools I need to build and stay ahead of the curve. Join me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recruiting-chatgpt-s-help-advocating-lpvg-toolset/">Recruiting ChatGPT's Help Advocating LPvg Toolset</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin and I'm looking for web-based APIs to help manage Linux system daemons through a Web UI. I'm open to using Flask or running it through Jupyter Notebooks in JupyterLab, hosted on the same Linux machine. I'm forking the .service file and running it as a GNU screen session to get the console-monitoring advantage. I use Linux virtual machines as a universal layer for interoperability and portability to make this skill timeless.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-personal-seo-to-ai-via-foss-on-lpvg-transition-plan/">My Personal SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg Transition Plan</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>This blog post outlines a plan for transitioning from SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg. I will be familiarizing readers with Moz's products and teaching them how to use tools like Vim and JupyterLab to create a nomadic computing environment that is hardware and vendor independent. I will provide a prescribed, vetted, and proven process to become more technical and free of Google, Microsoft, and other paid services.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/api-choices-rational-folks-won-t-say-magic/">API Choices & Rational Folks Won't Say Magic</a> (Fri Jan 06, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to work on a project involving namedtuples, which taught me the importance of taking the time to learn from my projects. Despite family drama, I was also able to reflect on how tech is fragile and rely on determinism and binary truths to make devices work. I advocate investing in timeless tech tools with good FOSS licenses and taking small steps to prevent them from becoming obsolete. By understanding the complexities of the world, I choose how much I want to simplify.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/become-aware-of-how-tech-churn-harms-you/">Become Aware of How Tech-churn Harms You</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm 52 and have experienced the harsh reality of technological obsolescence. To future-proof my tech career, I have decided to focus on developing skills that can't be taken away, such as muscle memory and habits. I have also chosen to focus on tech that changes the least over time, and created the term LPvg (Linux, Python, vim and git) to highlight four essential tools. I'm journaling almost every day to help others learn these tools, so they can stay ahead.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/cancelling-netflix-and-chill-t-mobile-offer/">Cancelling Netflix and Chill (T-Mobile offer)</a> (Wed May 25, 2022)
<br/>I'm cancelling my Netflix subscription and shouting out to some YouTube viewers that make streaming fun. I'm also evaluating what I should do today using three daily metaphors, considering moving back to NYC, and discussing the benefits of being anti-fragile. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, Vim, and Git (LPvg) as a practical alternative to Web Development. LPvg is a great way to become a programmer without needing to learn a whole new language.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/goal/">Goals</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/moz pro/">MOZ Pro</a></div></div>