<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-equivalent-alternative-to-usr-local-sbin/">Looking For Equivalent Alternative to /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I recently published from a Windows 11 laptop using NeoVim's new terminal macro and I'm starting to see the vimscript command: if has('nvim'). With this, I'm hoping to have a single .vimrc that works for both vim and NeoVim. I tested moving a draft post between machines and it worked, but I noticed that when I add anything to my spell-check library with the zg command, I lose syntax highlighting in NeoVim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-publishing-macro-using-terminal-expand/">NeoVim Publishing Macro Using :terminal & expand()</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to reset up my Windows 11 machine to get back to my daily workflow. This involved setting up credentials, installing NeoVim, remembering important environment settings, and re-instantiating Google and Microsoft addresses, my NAS drive, my terminal windows, and my JupyterLab icon. Additionally, I was listening to a YouTube video on how to race to the bottom of the brainstem and to the primary intimate relationship in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/more-standard-fields-more-useful-hotkeys-in-yamlesque-blogging-system/">More Standard Fields & More Useful Hotkeys in YAMLesque Blogging System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I changed the topics field to keywords in my blog posts and used a search/replace to make sure everything was up to date. To make sure my meta descriptions were accurate, I wrote a regex pattern for vim to search for lines beginning with description: and end with any character that is not sentence-ending punctuation. I created a macro to help me quickly search for and edit the AI-generated meta descriptions. Now I can easily make sure my blog posts have the best meta descriptions possible.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/blog-slice-dice-system-re-written-in-a-day/">Blog Slice & Dice System Re-Written In a Day</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I've re-implemented my blog slice & dice system, replaced an old markdown file with an efficient system, renamed the skite repo to chopchop, and paid for an AI to summarize my 540 blog posts. I'm using a generator for my journal-to-blog transformation script, and I'm now ready to go with 541 posts and an OpenAI meta description on the blog's index page. Come see the new and improved blog!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/refining-my-vimrc-now-that-it-s-a-neovim-init-vim/">Refining my .vimrc now that it's a NeoVim init.vim</a> (Sun Apr 09, 2023)
<br/>I just updated my init.vim with some new plugins and options, making it compatible with both NeoVim and Vim. I'm testing out a macro that returns the entire path and name of the file, and I'm creating a new file called chopchop.py to replace the old skite repo. Come check out my blog post to learn more about my experience with NeoVim and Vim!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-s-execute-command-doesn-t-even-show-output-in-neovim-of-m-s/">NeoVim's :execute Command Doesn't Even Show Output In NeoVim of ^M's</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>As a blogger, I'm debating whether to refactor my blogging system or to just use another keyboard shortcut from NeoVim. I asked Bing how to execute shell commands from NeoVim and found out that the :execute command doesn't even show output. Bing suggested using the `:terminal` command, mapping it to a keyboard shortcut, or using `vim.api.nvim_command` to execute a command. After realizing that this means my old macros look a little messed up</li>
<li><a href="/blog/throw-all-the-meat-veggies-into-the-stew-stir-the-blog-vlog/">Throw All The Meat & Veggies Into The Stew & Stir The Blog / Vlog</a> (Fri Jun 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently wrote a blog post about my experience with downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 so I could use LXD Linux containers on WSL Windows Subsystem for Linux. To make my workflow more efficient, I created a vim keyboard macro that generates the site I'm editing and added sites to sites.csv in the skite repo. Read my blog post to find out how this game-changing experience helped me streamline my workflow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recording-vim-macro-for-markdown-image-insertion/">Recording vim macro for markdown image insertion</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm hosting a livecasting event to show you how to use vim macros to quickly turn keyworded image files into the markdown required for HTML image insertion. I'll be demonstrating how to use search & replace patterns to capitalize and separate words, so you can learn how to quickly add images to your blog posts. Join me to learn this time-saving technique!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-ve-got-a-mic/">I've Got a Mic</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>I'm passionate about talking into the mic and sharing my stories. In this blog post, I'll show you how to find Carnac, record a Vim macro, and use HTML singletons. Plus, learn how to add the macro to a .vimrc file, use Vim buffers, and more. Don't miss out on this 'mic lovin' goodness!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/of-green-arrows-and-red-armor/">Of Green Arrows and Red Armor</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>As a web publisher optimizing content for search engines, I chose Vim for its utility over Emacs and am competing with the younguns using proprietary IDEs. I'm editing 15 homepages at once with Jekyll, and wondering why everyone doesn't do the same. I'm a lawyer, so I'm always prepared for a fight. Join me in my journey as I explore the potential pitfalls of using a macro system and discover why Jekyll is the best choice for editing multiple homepages.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-project-gets-done/">Every Little Project Gets Done!</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed the name of my project to ELTgd (Every Little Thing Gets Done) to push myself to do more and practice my vim skills. I'm also using whatsametafor.io to document my progress. Click through to read more about my journey and how I'm getting things done!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/copilot/">Copilot</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/search/">Search</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>