<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/can-large-language-models-help-you-learn-math/">Can Large Language Models Help You Learn Math?</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm talking to Bing about how to learn math quickly and effectively. We discussed general tips, Khan Academy, and how to convert word problems and data into calculus formulas. I also discovered Symbolab's ms Calculator, which I'm using to analyze SERP data and identify trends in the directionality of URLs and websites. Join me on my journey to learn math and uncover insights from SERP data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/desperately-seeking-a-better-intro-to-math-science-a-pythonic-one/">Desperately Seeking a Better Intro to Math & Science. A Pythonic One?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is looking to learn math and science but doesn't have a strong background in math, I have been searching for ways to learn math in a way that nurtures a love for the beauty and truth of math. I recently discovered how to use Python code to represent and manipulate basic concepts from Algebra, Geometry, and Trigonometry. I also explored some famous and easy to reproduce experiments in science, such as the two-slit experiment and cloud chambers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/desperately-seeking-a-better-intro-to-math-science-a-pythonic-one/">Desperately Seeking a Better Intro to Math & Science. A Pythonic One?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is looking to learn math and science but doesn't have a strong background in math, I have been searching for ways to learn math in a way that nurtures a love for the beauty and truth of math. I recently discovered how to use Python code to represent and manipulate basic concepts from Algebra, Geometry, and Trigonometry. I also explored some famous and easy to reproduce experiments in science, such as the two-slit experiment and cloud chambers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-ai-help-getting-up-to-speed-on-math/">Seeking AI-help Getting Up To Speed on Math</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who has always struggled with math, I understand that it is a skill that can be improved with practice and dedication. I recently found many online resources and self-teaching tools to help me learn at my own pace, such as the Mathematics Refresher Course on Udemy, a 16-hour Math Refresher course from Alamo Colleges, and 9 free online courses from edX. I'm also exploring the Maxwell Heaviside Schrödinger approach to physics.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/trying-to-get-python-sbin-commands-from-nbdev/">Trying to get Python sbin commands from nbdev</a> (Thu May 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm using my experience as a former mechanical engineer and current search engine optimization expert to help my homeschooled child find the right path. I'm re-implementing my blog slice & dice system with Python, JupyterLabs 3.3.4-2, and setuptools setup.py to make a command-line interface (CLI) command. With this jigsaw puzzle approach, I'm hoping to make the most of my time and help my child.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-new-way-to-visualize-general-relativity/">A New Way To Visualize General Relativity</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>Today was a big day for me - I installed Manim on my Windows machine, used Chocolatey to install vim, and Powershell to create .py files. To top it off, I sent a video that visualizes general relativity. I'm really enjoying exploring the Python Manim math visualization and animation package and all the possibilities it offers. Come join me on my journey and explore the wonders of Python Manim!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-programming-is-easy-but-math-is-hard/">Why Programming Is Easy But Math Is Hard</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who has struggled with math since high school, I have used Python and other tools to make it easier for me. I recently created my first Jekyll blog post and am now working on adding headlines. I'm excited to share my journey and hope it helps other people who are also struggling with math. Come read my blog post and join me on this journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/change/">Changes</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/habit/">Habits</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>