<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-ai-auto-publishing-anything/">Disabling AI Auto-Publishing Anything</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered a problem with Jekyll when trying to produce a list of the 10 most recent posts. To solve this, I used Python to control the list iteration and created a 5 x 20 grid of the top-100 categories on my website. After testing it in Jupyter, I successfully produced a table with the top 100 categories. I also recently switched from Windows 10 to Windows 11 and was able to transfer the 'soul' of the machine, including my system setup.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-category-descriptions-project/">OpenAI Category Descriptions Project</a> (Mon Apr 24, 2023)
<br/>I just released a project I've been working on for the past few days. After overcoming an issue with category tags, I'm now ready to move onto the next step: identifying data locations, deciding whether to rely on them in an existing context or break them out, and creating a parameter. Read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-on-adding-front-matter-support-to-journal-entries/">Planning on Adding Front Matter Support to Journal Entries</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I worked on a Content Gap Analysis project today and thought about adding Front Matter Support to my Journal Entries. I'm writing a program to parse a file, reconstruct it, and compare it to its source. I'm then transferring the logic into a python script and reversing the order of the posts in the live code to prevent bloat. I'm creating a new file - journal_ - to make this happen. Ready to take the first steps? Read my blog post to find out more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-svg-images-in-markdown-cells-of-jupyter-notebooks/">Embedding SVG Images in Markdown Cells of Jupyter Notebooks</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explains how I wrote a Python program that uses the base64 module to encode an SVG image file, generates an HTML img tag with the encoded data as the src attribute, and outputs the HTML img tag as a string. This allows the image to be displayed properly in a markdown cell of a Jupyter Notebook, making it easy to reference the original file. Read on to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-the-day-discussing-the-future-with-bard/">Planning The Day & Discussing The Future With Bard</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm spending Good Friday working on my increasingly YAML-based blogging system. I'm exploring ways to make the index page more interesting and discussing with Bard about ways it collaborates with other LLMs. I'm also considering a nomadic lifestyle and need to make sure I'm prepared to use my Linux, Python, vim, and git skills to make money on the road, as well as ways to help Mike Levin kick-off a simplification movement in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-multiple-blogs-within-one-github-pages-site/">Planning Multiple Blogs Within One Github Pages Site</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning to use Github Pages to host multiple blogs in one site, and I'm considering changes to my old content and URLs, as well as adding tags, a "big list" of blog posts, pagination, and thumbnail embeds. My goal is to create a website that provides the wisdom of the ages, allowing for objective thought and accessible through any device or tablet. Come explore my digital portal and join me in creating a space of freedom and objectivity.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/publishing/">Publishing</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/human/">Human</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>