<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/api-choices-rational-folks-won-t-say-magic/">API Choices & Rational Folks Won't Say Magic</a> (Fri Jan 06, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to work on a project involving namedtuples, which taught me the importance of taking the time to learn from my projects. Despite family drama, I was also able to reflect on how tech is fragile and rely on determinism and binary truths to make devices work. I advocate investing in timeless tech tools with good FOSS licenses and taking small steps to prevent them from becoming obsolete. By understanding the complexities of the world, I choose how much I want to simplify.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-documenting-my-best-tricks-on-this-site/">Start Documenting My Best Tricks On This Site</a> (Fri Sep 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my laptop to document my best tricks and stories on my website, using multiple laptops and an ELTgd task to run scripts and use Python Pandas and a Jupyter Notebook. I'm also making sure to categorize everything, and I'm excited to share my knowledge with you! Come check out my website and see my best tricks and stories.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-automated-install-script-for-lxd-jupyter-on-wsl/">Writing Automated Install Script for LXD & Jupyter on WSL</a> (Wed Sep 14, 2022)
<br/>This article describes my attempt to use JupyterLab under LXC and my progress on an automated install script for LXD and Jupyter on WSL. I'm also trying to simulate the tftp tricks I've done in Levinux and make my own bit optional graphics build. Read on to find out more about my journey and how it can help you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switching-from-wsl-to-lxd-containers-permanently/">Switching From WSL to LXD Containers Permanently</a> (Tue Sep 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big change to my workflow and switching from Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to LXD Containers on Windows. I've set up the mappings and added a command to my .bash_profile in WSL, and now I'm testing to make sure it's working. I'm hoping to move all my work over to the Container, and I've even figured out a trick to find the Windows home location. Come read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-i-want-to-offer-the-world-doesn-t-align-with-existing-youtube-search/">What I Want To Offer The World Doesn't Align With Existing YouTube Search</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm offering something new to the world: hand and finger magic tricks that I learned from my mailman. I'm targeting adults aged 25 to 44, and I want to help them grab skills for life. My YouTube analytics show that I have a large female audience and I'm now using my knowledge to become a pied piper of a new generation. Come join me and learn valuable knowledge that will help you future-proof your skills.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sharpening-my-prev-next-arrows/">Sharpening My Prev/Next Arrows</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm proud of the effort I put into creating the formatting of the previous/next arrows on my website. I used style.scss, post.html, a non-breaking-space trick, and flexbox wrangling to make them look elegant. I'm still learning how to neutralize and escape Jekyll blog post Liquid directives, but I'm excited to share the results of my work. Click to read more!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/wisdom/">Wisdom</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/scheduling/">Scheduling</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>