<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/from-the-singularity-to-galactic-3d-printed-mycelial-network/">From The Singularity to Galactic 3D Printed Mycelial Network</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>As part of the mycelium network, I'm exploring the potential outcomes of creating a new AI. This revolutionary concept uses advanced algorithms, machine learning, and other technologies to create energy and resources from the environment without disrupting Earth's delicate balances. It is a vision of a future that is powered by cooperation and collaboration, rather than competition and conflict. With the help of AI and other technologies, the mycelium network has the potential to transform the world in ways that were previously unimaginable.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-helps-refine-foss-lpvg-argument/">Bing Helps Refine FOSS LPvg Argument</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>ChatGPT-4 is an AI language model that can discuss interesting topics and provide helpful insight on non-religious belief systems. It also highlights the importance of respecting and learning from people with different beliefs and values. Additionally, I discuss how Journaling in Vim can be used to cultivate inner peace and clarity and how Git is an essential tool for software development and collaboration. Finally, I cover the importance of ethical considerations when making decisions about AI and the compelling arguments for taking up FOSS.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/proprietary-platforms-are-moving-in-on-the-free-open-source-web/">Proprietary Platforms Are Moving In On The Free & Open Source Web</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>Discover how deep learning and game theory can be used together to create more effective AI solutions. In this blog post, I discuss the potential applications of deep learning to game theory and the importance of collaboration between the two disciplines. I also explain how game theory can help to model and solve various deep learning problems, and how AI can create competitive pressures for content providers. Finally, I explore how deep language learning models can make the web more transparent and accountable by providing evidence and sources for their claims.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/general-artificial-intelligence-nas-business-plan/">General Artificial Intelligence NAS Business Plan</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As part of the GAIA NAS team, I am developing a storage device that combines storage solutions and general artificial intelligence capabilities to improve human well-being. GAIA NAS will offer users a reliable, secure, and scalable storage solution, as well as the ability to learn from data, perform tasks, and interact with users in natural ways. With GAIA NAS, I can access my data from anywhere, share it with anyone, back it up automatically, and stream media files seamlessly.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-chatgpt-s-help-transitioning-from-seo-to-data-engineer/">Getting ChatGPT's Help Transitioning From SEO To Data Engineer</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm a Webmaster transitioning to a Data Engineer, and I'm promoting an approach that combines JupyterLab, Linux terminal environment, and Git to help others make the same transition. I'm highlighting the benefits of learning these technologies, as well as the hands-on approach and practical learning opportunities provided by the Jupyter Notebook tutorials. With this project, I'm looking to help people become more in-demand, versatile, and resilient in the technology industry.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-practice-folder-created/">Pipulate Practice Folder Created</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm pushing myself to take the next steps in the Pipulate project, focusing on collaboration and best practices. I'm exploring ideas to use AI to edit my YouTube videos, setting up the Pipulate repo and practice folder, and activating scheduling under a systemd service. I'm using nbdev version 2 and OhAwf with the addition of the run_console feature. All the necessary software can be found on the Pipulate Software page. Come explore the possibilities with me!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/marketing/">Marketing</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/scheduling/">Scheduling</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>