<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-codex-api-cost-getting-started-usage-pattern/">OpenAI Codex API Cost Getting Started Usage Pattern</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>Getting started with the OpenAI Codex API and worried about cost? Understand the cost pattern of catching up with a backlog, and then costs going down moving forward. Once my job was 'caught up', processing going forward was only 50 cents per day.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-an-advice-from-openai-field-to-my-journal/">Adding an Advice From OpenAI Field to my Journal</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a cyborg who is exploring the value of OpenAI, utilizing AI-assisted thought processes and hotkeys to turn the AI on and off. I'm testing a function to give advice from the OpenAI API and am using it to summarize blog posts into meta descriptions, headlines, and keywords, as well as suggest life improvements.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ever-have-to-combine-csvs-do-it-better-with-python-pandas/">Ever Have to Combine CSVs? Do It Better With Python Pandas!</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>Using the Python Pandas Library to better manipulate row and column data, I recently conducted research on a variety of websites to compare engagement rates. My findings included 15 visitors and a 1% engagement rate for Netflix.com, and 20 visitors and a 2% engagement rate for IMDB.com. Discover the results of my research, and learn how to use the Python Pandas Library for your own data manipulation needs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learnings-from-weekend-openai-keyword-extraction-clustering-project/">Learnings From Weekend OpenAI Keyword Extraction & Clustering Project</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently used the OpenAI API to gain hands-on experience with keyword extraction and clustering to create a story-like visualization in the console. I applied the 80/20 rule to solve the issue of errors with structured lists, and gained new respect for Vim/NeoVim and caution for VSCode. I'm now using NeoVim and Copilot to finish a data project, and have discovered that machines being intelligent now means that I have a virtual assistant.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moz-links-api-an-introduction/">MOZ Links API, An Introduction</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>As a Python programmer, I'm here to tell you about APIs and how to use them. I'll explain the MOZ Links API, GET and POST methods, JSON format, and Python dictionaries. Plus, I'll show you how to make a request using the requests library, and how to use the 'json.dumps' and 'json.loads' functions to convert a Python object into a JSON string. Read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/continuing-my-silent-live-streaming-journaling-adventure/">Continuing My Silent Live-Streaming Journaling Adventure</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm live-streaming my journey of journaling and making the argument for keeping a single text file for life. I'm also creating a Github repo with code examples, watching cartoons with my kid, and making them food. I've written sample code and converted them into Python dict objects, and I now have a Jupyter Notebook to share with the community. Join me on my journey and explore the possibilities of journaling and coding!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-do-you-do-when-you-approach-a-new-api/">What do you do when you approach a new API?</a> (Mon Mar 20, 2023)
<br/>As I explore a new API, I have many questions to answer. I need to know the protocols, endpoints, versions, methods, login process, API reference guide, client libraries, batch requests, paged responses, quota handling, and more. I'm taking you through my journey to get the answers I need. Join me in exploring this new API!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-thinking-about-broader-foss-seo-features/">Start Thinking About Broader FOSS SEO Features</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to join Moz, a search engine optimization company, as an online personality. I'm looking to create "junior versions" of products that could be Moz products, or better deliverables when mashed-up with a Moz API. I'm also exploring products like AlsoAsk, which uses Google Suggest to create a visual representation of relationships. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the exciting opportunities ahead!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/nbdev-makes-py-file-extractions-from-notebooks/">nbdev Makes .py-file Extractions From Notebooks</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to master Google Photos through the API. To do this, I'm introducing nbdev2 and using Linux mounts to synchronize my WSL Linux ~/data directory on my Windows laptop with my ~/data directory on the NAS LXD server. As a member of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), I'm proud to be part of an organization that promotes excellence in scientific research and works to advance science for the betterment of humanity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-google-photos-organization-program/">Testing Google Photos Organization Program</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm testing a Google Photos organization system, uploading photos to my NAS, and setting up a home cloud to increase my storage capabilities. To get around certain API limitations, I'm using Microsoft Playwright browser automation on a headless LXD server. In this blog post, I discuss the impact of media on society and how it can be used to shape public opinion and create a more informed and connected society. Read more to find out my thoughts on this important topic.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/numbering-weeks-from-utc-zero-vs-your-birthday/">Numbering Weeks from UTC-Zero Vs. Your Birthday</a> (Wed Feb 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to decide the best way to break up my Google Photos querying project into chunks of time. Should I use weeks measured from Unix Timestamp or from my own birthday? I'm now considering writing my own code, as I'm losing faith in the code I was given from ChatGPT. Read more to find out how I'm tackling this project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helped-python-tweepy-my-tweets-onto-my-website/">ChatGPT Helped Python Tweepy my Tweets Onto My Website</a> (Fri Jan 27, 2023)
<br/>I used the Python package Tweepy and the ChatGPT assisted coding session to successfully access the Twitter API and pull 3K of my 11K tweets since 2007. I've posted the code on my website, and I've also created a CSV file of all the tweets I pulled. Come check out my website to see how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-could-be-super-enabling-helping-you-code-at-all/">AI Could be Super-Enabling, Helping You Code At All</a> (Thu Jan 26, 2023)
<br/>As a coding novice, I used ChatGPT to learn how to code in Python and edit videos. With the help of ChatGPT, I was able to gain the superpower of coding in Python to help me with my project. I also used OpenAI API to submit JSONL data and extract data from HTML. To store the data, I chose to use a SQLite database and DNS to translate IPs. Finally, I virtualized Linux and used a RaspberryPi-based server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/youtube-analytics-api-delegation-driving-me-to-web-browser-automation/">YouTube Analytics API Delegation Driving Me to Web Browser Automation</a> (Tue Jan 03, 2023)
<br/>I'm attempting to access YouTube Analytics, but the API is proving difficult. After trying to use parameters such as onBehalfOfOwner, I'm getting 403s. I'm now considering web browser automation, and am exploring Microsoft Playwright to automate web browser sessions and capture a manual login. Join me as I explore the possibilities of the YouTube Analytics and Reporting APIs, and consider web scraping as an alternative.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/browser-automation-becoming-natural-easy-at-long-last/">Browser Automation Becoming Natural & Easy At Long Last</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a big project and documenting my progress on my blog. I've combined tabs into one data frame, deduped the list, calculated job eta, picked APIs date format, and defined typical month ranges for GA APIs. I'm now ready to perform browser automation, configuring the browser to be headless and setting up a namedtuple for arguments. I'm also using the Pandas library to read a directory full of downloads and joining them together.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-analytics-ga4-api-access-will-be-my-first-project-for-pipulate/">Google Analytics GA4 API Access Will Be My First Project for Pipulate</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to start my first project for Pipulate, which involves accessing the Google Analytics GA4 API. I'm taking a top-down and bottom-up approach to SEO, and I've named my repo GA4mageddon. I'm using the impending Google-induced panic about GA4 to create better examples and instructions for readers to entice them to click through to the blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-python-pandas-iloc-interface-explained-for-the-befuddled/">The Python Pandas .iloc Interface Explained For The Befuddled</a> (Fri Dec 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my knowledge of how to use Pandas, a data manipulation tool, to select columns from a DataFrame by using its name or the .loc or .iloc interfaces. I'll explain how to use slices to specify row and column ranges, how to use a colon to select all rows, and why the Pandas API has chosen to drop the use of square-brackets for slices.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/doing-a-google-analytics-api-project-filtering-us-only-traffic/">Doing a Google Analytics API Project (Filtering US Only Traffic)</a> (Tue Dec 06, 2022)
<br/>I'm building a project to connect to Google Analytics via their API, and I've written code to retrieve metrics such as users, sessions, bounce rate, average session duration and pages/session. I'm also creating a text file with a list of profile IDs, segments and start/end dates for the past year, and I've written a loop to generate the start and end dates for each month. Follow along with my project to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-the-lxd-lxc-command-line-api/">Figuring Out The LXD/LXC Command-line API</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>As a Linux user, I recently received a notice that my LXC container is unsupported. To learn the LXD/LXC command-line API, I discovered the command `lxc exec instance_name -- command` to execute commands in the LXD image, `lxc list` to view containers, `lxc start foo` to start one, and `lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu` to log.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post to demonstrate how to use the</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/openai/">OpenAI</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/wsl2/">WSL2</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>