<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-all-openai-completion-calls-to-one-function/">Moving All OpenAI Completion Calls to One Function</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>This post outlines the process of moving OpenAI Completion calls from many functions into to one function. It explains the reasoning behind the decision, the 80/20-rule solution, and the resulting changes. I completed the changes and is now ready to test the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rendering-un-styled-jekyll-markdown-drafts-for-pasting-into-google-docs/">Rendering Un-Styled Jekyll Markdown Drafts for Pasting Into Google Docs</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>Render un-styled Jekyll Markdown drafts for pasting into Google Docs with this easy-to-implement technique. Learn how to use the `published: false` directive, the `yaml_generator` function, and a stripped-down template named `plain.html` to generate drafts that can be pasted into Google Docs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/added-support-for-arbitrary-jekyll-yaml-fields/">Added Support for Arbitrary Jekyll YAML Fields</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>Clean up your drafts folder and start using `_drafts` for actual drafts! Learn how to set the publish field to false in Jekyll Front Matter, adjust list comprehension to filter out unpublished posts, and preserve fields during the YAML-chopping step. Improve the core yamlchop function with a before and after example and see the result with the first release under the new code.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-equivalent-alternative-to-usr-local-sbin/">Looking For Equivalent Alternative to /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I recently published from a Windows 11 laptop using NeoVim's new terminal macro and I'm starting to see the vimscript command: if has('nvim'). With this, I'm hoping to have a single .vimrc that works for both vim and NeoVim. I tested moving a draft post between machines and it worked, but I noticed that when I add anything to my spell-check library with the zg command, I lose syntax highlighting in NeoVim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/defaultdict-s-returning-keys-with-lambdas-needs-default-none/">DefaultDict's Returning Keys with Lambdas Needs Default None</a> (Sun Apr 23, 2023)
<br/>I have created a YAMLesque journaling system and used powerful techniques such as setting a default None value with Python defaultdict and lambdas for improved flow control and efficiency. Learn how I used this project to write two blog posts, and watch the new release process in action.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/theory/">Theory</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blogslicer/">blogslicer</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>