<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-default-behavior-of-m2-mac-preparing-to-write-mac-drinkme/">Exploring Default Behavior of M2 Mac, Preparing to Write Mac DrinkMe</a> (Sat May 13, 2023)
<br/>This post follows a developer as they explore the default behavior of an M2 Mac and prepare to write a Mac DrinkMe install procedure. Through the post, they investigate the install procedure and test the Mac's features, including virtual desktops, Safari's Rapid Security Response, and the ability to open apps from unidentified developers. They also discover the Mac's built-in screen recording feature.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/keeping-wsl2-systemd-alive-with-a-nohup-ping-from-bash-profile-now-running-only-once/">Keeping WSL2 systemd Alive With a nohup ping From .bash_profile, Now Running only Once!</a> (Sat May 13, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use existing tools to make your daily work easier. Get tips on how to layer on improvements and changes, and how to organize your files. Find out how to set up a Mac and run a nohup ping command from your .bash_profile. Get the solution to keep it running only once!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/smart-people-read-dumb-people-tell-you-they-did-after-watching-the-movie/">Smart People Read. Dumb People Tell You They Did After Watching the Movie.</a> (Sat May 13, 2023)
<br/>Smart people read to gain knowledge, understanding, and empathy. Reading gives you a competitive advantage and a deeper appreciation of the human experience. Don't be fooled by people who don't read and think they can get the same benefits by using AI to write for them. Reading is the key to success.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-jacked-into-the-metaverse-or-living-in-flatland/">Are You Jacked Into the Metaverse or Living in Flatland?</a> (Fri May 12, 2023)
<br/>I'm a slow learner, but once I understand a tool, I'm unstoppable. I'm exploring the potential of portable systems, and the power of AI, to increase my impact and the impact of those around me. I'm using Jupyter and some proprietary tools that hook to it to demonstrate the potential of the platform and show people what they really need to see.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recruiting-chatgpt-s-help-advocating-lpvg-toolset/">Recruiting ChatGPT's Help Advocating LPvg Toolset</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin and I'm looking for web-based APIs to help manage Linux system daemons through a Web UI. I'm open to using Flask or running it through Jupyter Notebooks in JupyterLab, hosted on the same Linux machine. I'm forking the .service file and running it as a GNU screen session to get the console-monitoring advantage. I use Linux virtual machines as a universal layer for interoperability and portability to make this skill timeless.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adapting-my-drinkme-for-linux-pipulate-script-for-macs/">Adapting My DrinkMe for Linux Pipulate Script for Macs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm adapting my DrinkMe Linux Pipulate Script for Macs, so I'm using a Linux VM on a Mac for the most precise code execution. To make this easy, I'm using Canonical's MultiPass, which turns on virtualization and sets up a working instance of Ubuntu. I'm also using Apple Bonjour's mDNS to map host ports to the VM ports, and I've updated the install script to ensure Linux graphics work in headful mode.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/week-3-at-moz-step-up-your-game/">Week 3 at Moz, Step-Up Your Game</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new job at Moz and want to get off to a good start. I'm journaling live and making it more social, using open source text editor Vim and working on a project called Pipulate. I'm sharing my thoughts with my audience daily and have found Python to be the best fit for me. My goal is to get others to install JupyterLab under an invisible Linux VM, making the journey onto Linux an appealing adventure.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-the-linux-nomadic-movement-with-the-new-bing/">Imagining The Linux Nomadic Movement With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a developer who values speed, productivity and ergonomics, I have been using Vim since 1976 and it has proven to be a reliable and robust tool. With a large and active community that provides support, documentation and plugins for various purposes, Vim offers advantages over VSCode, such as rapid key sequences, not requiring arrow keys, and performing complex operations with minimal keystrokes. Join me in the Linux nomadic movement.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/day-3-at-moz/">Day 3 at MOZ</a> (Wed Mar 01, 2023)
<br/>On my third day of my new job, I'm setting up to work on both Mac and PC as many influencers use Macs. I'm troubleshooting a few issues with permissions, and staying organized and on top of my expectations. I'm also thinking of article ideas to entice readers to click through to the blog post, such as "How Do You Still Target The Long Tail? Is The Long-tail Dead?</li>
<li><a href="/blog/keep-taking-those-baby-steps-every-day/">Keep Taking Those Baby-Steps Every Day</a> (Wed Feb 22, 2023)
<br/>I have had to scale down my dreams over the years, but I still strive to maintain stability. In this era of unprecedented technological advancement, I am exploring how to benefit from the economic value chain and embracing easy APIs. To make a compelling argument, I am launching OnTheRise.AI, thinking about how Pipulate will work on a Mac, and reflecting on why many people resist becoming technical and why Oracle has a negative effect on FOSS software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sub-linux-sub-love-so-learn/">Sub-Linux Sub-Love So-Learn</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I've been on YouTube since 2006, and now I'm embracing free and open source software. I'm encouraging people to escape Windows, Mac and proprietary software, and to write a daily journal in vim. I'm talking more to myself and sharing some of my personal and proprietary information, but with a positive spin. I'm taking advice from Rafiki and learning from the past to improve my future. Join me on this journey and discover how to make the most of free and open source software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-formative-years-at-all-boys-science-summer-camp-integrated-life/">My Formative Years at All-Boys Science Summer Camp / Integrated Life</a> (Mon Jun 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and I advocate for the use of everyday tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git. I'm writing this to let you know that if you don't know \*nix, you're behind, as Unix has been an integral part of computing since 1970. I've made the journey from hand magic, Dungeons & Dragons, and comic books to teaching these tools and believe that life is interconnected and that we should make the most of our everyday skills.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/easy-peasy-computer-literacy/">Easy Peasy Computer Literacy</a> (Fri May 20, 2022)
<br/>At 50 years old, I discovered my passion for Linux, Python, vim & git, and have been mastering it for 10 years. I use JupyterLab for learning, and am concerned about relying on vendor-driven power-tools like VSCode. To combat this, I'm following the JupyterLab contributors on Github and Twitter to ensure the Mac and Windows versions are up-to-date. Read my article to learn more about the divide between VSCode.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adventures-installing-manim-on-windows-11-not-under-wsl-linux/">Adventures Installing Manim on Windows 11 (Not Under WSL Linux)</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>I recently switched from Mac to Microsoft and discovered the power of the vim command :b1. This blog post explores the importance of developing internal resilience and extracting the lessons from life experiences. I discuss the differences between the neocortex and the pituitary gland and how the neocortex can override the signals of the pituitary gland. I also share my experience of trying to get Manim to work on my Windows 11 system, and how I ultimately got it to work on Windows 10. I</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-home-folder-vs-linux-home-folder-under-wsl/">Windows Home Folder vs. Linux Home Folder Under WSL</a> (Wed Apr 13, 2022)
<br/>As an experienced user of tech-tools, I have established conventions for storing files in my local system and online. I use the "home" folder of the operating system as my starting point, and I'm also utilizing the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to access the Linux home folder. I'm currently considering what audience my writing should appeal to, and have identified two primary groups. Read my blog post to learn more about my strategies for organizing and using tech-tools.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><a href=""></a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/google/">Google</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>