<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/levinux-pipulate-yamlesque/">Levinux, Pipulate & YAMLesque</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I'm striving for financial independence and using the 80/20-rule and OpenAI's Codex AI to create a plan of action to help me reach my goals. I'm breaking out of my old habits and focusing on inventing and building in the real and text-based world with Linux, Python, vim & git. I'm taking baby-steps to create a life of abundance and order.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/have-journal-will-travel-across-machines/">Have Journal Will Travel (across machines)</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently moved to a new machine and was worried about my complex publishing system staying intact, especially with the GPT-like AI, Copilot. After getting a new keyboard and making sure my habits traveled with me, I was able to successfully set up Copilot and publish a post. Read on to find out how I overcame my worries and completed my tasks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-what-is-the-most-important-advice-in-life/">Bing: What is the most important advice in life?</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>On March 21, 2023, I asked Bing for the most important advice in life. Bing suggested I prioritize my tasks, take care of myself, and connect with others. When I asked what to do if I'm feeling alone, Bing suggested reaching out to someone I trust, finding a community, and taking care of myself. Finally, I asked what is the best thing I can do for my child and Bing suggested visiting the zoo, taking a book out of the library, and going for a walk.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-is-disincentivizing-installing-chrome-changing-default-search/">Microsoft is disincentivizing Installing Chrome & Changing Default Search</a> (Sat Feb 25, 2023)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I'm fascinated by Microsoft's bold move to power AI ChatBot responses with Azure cloud computing and disincentivize users from installing Chrome or changing their default search settings. This could have a huge impact on Google's main revenue stream and completely shift the landscape of the tech industry. Learn more about this fascinating development and its potential implications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/become-aware-of-how-tech-churn-harms-you/">Become Aware of How Tech-churn Harms You</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm 52 and have experienced the harsh reality of technological obsolescence. To future-proof my tech career, I have decided to focus on developing skills that can't be taken away, such as muscle memory and habits. I have also chosen to focus on tech that changes the least over time, and created the term LPvg (Linux, Python, vim and git) to highlight four essential tools. I'm journaling almost every day to help others learn these tools, so they can stay ahead.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reversing-desensitization-and-dehumanization/">Reversing Desensitization And Dehumanization</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>As a human, it's important to keep our capacity to care and stay curious. As children, we learn to go from satisfying internal needs to external ones, forming healthy habits. As adults, it's easy to become distracted and stuck in the daily grind. I'm here to remind you to stay open to trying new things and exploring new paths. Read on to find out how to stay curious and engaged in life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-your-daily-vim-exercise/">Get Your Daily vim Exercise</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning to express myself fluently in English, use Linux, Python, vim, and git, and focus on joy-filled habits. I'm also recognizing the importance of maintenance and organization to achieve flow, but understand the difficulty of developing habits in a constantly changing environment. I'm exploring the luxuries of static environments, like properties and inheritances, and how they can help with habit formation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jekyll-include-tags-for-github-io-youtube-embedding/">Jekyll include tags for Github.io YouTube Embedding</a> (Fri Aug 20, 2021)
<br/>I'm developing new habits to become an expert in technical moves and live-streaming. To make sure nothing proprietary is shared, I'm setting up hotkeys and testing embedding YouTube videos in my Github.io pages. I'm also creating mikelevinseo.com as a place to write about topics instead of my main journal. Click through to read more about my journey.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/math/">Math</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/template/">Template</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>