<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/clarified-linux-python-vim-git-mission-on-homepage/">Clarified Linux, Python, vim & git Mission on Homepage</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>I'm an expert in Linux, Python, vim & git and I'm promoting Literate Programming and its connection to Jupyter, Python and Markdown. On my homepage, I've collected my work and favorite articles to make my vision and message clear. Come check it out and see what I have to offer!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fernando-corbato-ken-tohompson-linux-torvals-oh-my/">Fernando Corbato, Ken Tohompson & Linux Torvals, Oh My!</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>Explore my Linux Wonderland, an idea inspired by the individuals who made star-nix possible: Fernando Corbato, Ken Thompson, and Linus Torvalds. I'm creating projects under starnix, doing long-running scripts that run in the context of Linux services called daemons. See how this approach to tech is now as big as webdev, thanks to the Windows Subsystem for Linux, W. Come join me on this journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/editing-15-homepages-at-once-in-vim/">Editing 15 Homepages at Once in vim</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>I'm editing 15 homepages at once using vim, creating necessary files and folders, and writing a configuration file for a Jekyll website. This configuration file includes a list of plugins, a theme name, an author, a permalink, a Google Analytics ID, a title, a description, and an apex - all saved in the apex directory of the website. Come read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/of-green-arrows-and-red-armor/">Of Green Arrows and Red Armor</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>As a web publisher optimizing content for search engines, I chose Vim for its utility over Emacs and am competing with the younguns using proprietary IDEs. I'm editing 15 homepages at once with Jekyll, and wondering why everyone doesn't do the same. I'm a lawyer, so I'm always prepared for a fight. Join me in my journey as I explore the potential pitfalls of using a macro system and discover why Jekyll is the best choice for editing multiple homepages.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/edit-10-blogs-homepages-or-templates-all-at-once/">Edit 10 Blogs, Homepages or Templates All At Once</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm breathing new life into MikeLev.in, creating a \_layouts folder in each repo with a default.html file to get my Google Analytics code on each site. I've also created helper-scripts to edit all my site-files at once and am putting rudimentary site-navigation links in place. I'm considering switching gears to make it about previous/next blog, so stay tuned for more updates!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/submerging-a-migrated-wordpress-site/">Submerging A Migrated WordPress Site</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm in the midst of migrating my WordPress blog to Jekyll and am running into a few issues. I'm moving the index.md file, making a subfolder, and renaming the file to index.md. While I've brought my old homepage back to life, I'm now dealing with broken picture links that I must fix. Follow my journey as I work through this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-project-gets-done-elpgd/">Every Little Project Gets Done (ELPGD)</a> (Wed Apr 27, 2022)
<br/>I successfully completed a project for a blog slicer app, demonstrating the power of ELPGD (Every Little Project Gets Done). I figured out how to put the sliced and diced version of my blog in the repo root, and have created a blog that I'm sure readers will find interesting. Read my post to learn more!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/command-line/">Command-Line</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/algorithm/">Algorithms</a></div></div>