<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-as-performance-art/">Journaling As Performance Art</a> (Fri Feb 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a performance art piece that auto-publishes my journal entries on Github.io. I'm also building a get_responses function that takes a list of URLs or tuples and returns a list of tuples. I'm testing it by providing it with a list of URLs and a function and checking the output. My goal is to get responses from a list of URLs and assign them either 'foo' or 'bar', then return them as a list. For example, when</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-google-analytics-to-github-io-page-with-jekyll/">Adding Google Analytics to Github.io Page with Jekyll</a> (Fri Aug 20, 2021)
<br/>I recently installed Google Analytics on my Github.io Page with Jekyll, and I'm so glad I took the time to understand the Liquid system and what was going on underneath. After a few moments of research, I was able to successfully install Google Analytics and now I'm ready to move on to the next step. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jekyll-include-tags-for-github-io-youtube-embedding/">Jekyll include tags for Github.io YouTube Embedding</a> (Fri Aug 20, 2021)
<br/>I'm developing new habits to become an expert in technical moves and live-streaming. To make sure nothing proprietary is shared, I'm setting up hotkeys and testing embedding YouTube videos in my Github.io pages. I'm also creating mikelevinseo.com as a place to write about topics instead of my main journal. Click through to read more about my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/re-launch-mikelevinseo-com-on-github-io/">(Re)Launch MikeLevinSEO.com on Github.io</a> (Fri Aug 6, 2021)
<br/>I'm excited to announce the relaunch of my blog/journal on Github.io! After finding the DNS, deleting records, and setting up the Github repository, I enabled Github Pages, added the domain to Github settings, and customized the template. To top it off, I added Google Analytics and Search Console tracking. Come check out my new blog and join me on this journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/make-more-use-of-github-io-for-blogging/">Make More Use of github.io for Blogging</a> (Thu Aug 5, 2021)
<br/>MikeLevinSEO shares his strategy for publishing a book, including his plan to use Jekyll and switch his domains from GoDaddy to NameCheap. He explains how he prioritizes his work using three metaphors, and shares his plan to use mikelevinseo.com as his domain name. Follow MikeLevinSEO's journey as he embarks on his book publishing adventure!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blogslicer/">blogslicer</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/linux-terminal/">Linux Terminal</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>