<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-x-marks-the-spot/">Rappelling Down the Rabbit Hole, X-Marks The Spot</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin, SEO in NYC, shares his experience of rappelling down the rabbit hole of GPT and other AI-related technologies. He explains the power of using one text editor for life and the advantages of using open source tools like NeoVim and Emacs. He also shares his insights into the dangers of AI and encourages readers to develop empathy for these technologies.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/calcium-foss-make-flexible-tools/">Calcium & FOSS Make Flexible Tools</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I've been exploring text editors and I've come to the realization that they are close to being tools in our bodies like calcium-based structures like bones. I believe that text editors are the most personal of all software, and AI is evolving AI to express itself inside them along with us. We're designing ourselves in another sort of Cambrian Explosion. Read my blog post to discover why I'm an optimist despite pervasive pessimistic arguments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/better-living-through-text-editors/">Better Living Through Text Editors</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is striving to become more independent from AI and the corporate world, I'm learning to use a text editor to become more deliberate and thoughtful. I'm using OpenAI API to slice and dice my journal.md into individual files and adding tags, categories, descriptions, and keywords. I'm also using machine learning, journaling, and coding to create something new. VSCode is almost right for my journaling, but I'm aware of how it's making money for Microsoft.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/internalizing-tools-through-eepigenetics/">Internalizing Tools Through Eepigenetics</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>This article reflects on my journey in life, discussing the concept of epigenetics and Mike Levin, a microbiologist who shares my name and is a hero of mine. I explore my experiences in life, including falling victim to shortcut-seekers and narcissists, and how I am learning to make sure I don't lose myself to someone else. I have embraced my environment by finding my tools, and have realized the importance of incorporating VSCode into my DNA. I discuss the power of text editors.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/if-i-were-green-i-would-die-abba-di-abba-di/">If I Were Green I Would Die. Abba Di Abba Di.</a> (Sun May 29, 2022)
<br/>I am a YouTuber determined to succeed without compromising my standards. I discuss the difficulty of editing videos on YouTube, how APIs can be misleading, and the power of programming languages like Python and vi. I also explore the duality of red and green energy, the strength of diversity, and the power of creativity and natural hunting skills. Finally, I share my experience of shooting my best livecast ever and how it reminded me of the resilience I have developed over the years.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/emacs/">Emacs</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/open-source/">Open-Source</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>