<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/indomitable-spirit/">Indomitable Spirit</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I recently restarted WSL to get my Linux and Windows clocks in sync. I'm actively working my way back from several setbacks, including a move, my cat escaping, and changes at my job. To help me on my journey, I'm using NeoVim, updating my journaling system, rolling with the punches and navigating my next step.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/preserving-jupyter-config-files-between-wsl-2-lxd-installs/">Preserving ~/.jupyter config files between WSL 2 LXD installs</a> (Sat Sep 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project that requires WSL 2 LXD, and I needed to save my ~/.jupyter config files between installs. I identified the default location and created a transfer directory, added an environment variable, and tested the process. After reinstalling, I confirmed that my JupyterLab dark theme was still active. Follow my journey as I go through the process and make sure my JupyterLab dark theme is still active.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-down-the-wsl-to-lxd-install-script-rabbit-hole/">Going Down the WSL to LXD Install Script Rabbit Hole</a> (Mon Sep 12, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project to create a bash install script that will set up a Jupyter server on a Windows machine. I'm writing the script, installing it from an Ubuntu 18.04 instance with LXD, creating a PowerShell script, and setting up a ~/repos folder and jupyme repo. Follow my journey as I build this project and learn along the way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-m-mike-levin-helping-you-fight-obsolescence/">I'm Mike Levin helping you fight obsolescence</a> (Fri Aug 19, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, and I'm hard at work overhauling my website, MikeLev.in, with the help of simplecss.org. I'm also creating videos to help others fight obsolescence in their technical skills. Come join me as I introduce people to Linux and vim, and show them how to install Linux on their Windows systems with wsl --install in Powershell. Today is the day to take control of your technical skills!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adventures-installing-manim-on-windows-11-not-under-wsl-linux/">Adventures Installing Manim on Windows 11 (Not Under WSL Linux)</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>I recently switched from Mac to Microsoft and discovered the power of the vim command :b1. This blog post explores the importance of developing internal resilience and extracting the lessons from life experiences. I discuss the differences between the neocortex and the pituitary gland and how the neocortex can override the signals of the pituitary gland. I also share my experience of trying to get Manim to work on my Windows 11 system, and how I ultimately got it to work on Windows 10. I</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-new-way-to-visualize-general-relativity/">A New Way To Visualize General Relativity</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>Today was a big day for me - I installed Manim on my Windows machine, used Chocolatey to install vim, and Powershell to create .py files. To top it off, I sent a video that visualizes general relativity. I'm really enjoying exploring the Python Manim math visualization and animation package and all the possibilities it offers. Come join me on my journey and explore the wonders of Python Manim!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/human/">Human</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/cat/">Cats</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>