<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/expanding-my-google-suggest-jupyter-notebook-to-include-stop-words/">Expanding My Google Suggest Jupyter Notebook to Include Stop Words</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I recently moved my Google Photos project to a server running LXD Linux and am refining my Google Suggest probing to include stop words. I'm also exploring the idea of switching my project to Jupyter Notebook based locally. I'm using the same technique on my OhAwf repo and it's proving to be successful. Read more to find out how I'm making this transition and the success I'm having with it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/managing-static-vs-dynamic-leads-to-practical-fusion-a-better-you/">Managing Static Vs. Dynamic Leads to Practical Fusion & a Better You</a> (Thu Dec 15, 2022)
<br/>As a parent, I am helping my preteen navigate the transition from childhood to adulthood by encouraging them to observe, ask questions, and narrate their experiences. I am teaching them the importance of both static and dynamic states of being, which are both necessary for growth, from developing atomic energy to the inner workings of our own lives. I am also reflecting on my own journey of self-inspection and self-modification, which I had to do in order to grow and develop during transitional periods.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-an-imposter-have-you-heard-of-imposter-syndrome/">Are You An Imposter? Have You Heard of Imposter Syndrome?</a> (Sat Dec 10, 2022)
<br/>As a New York SEO expert, I'm making my home cozy and inviting while encouraging people to familiarize themselves with tech and info tech. I'm leveraging my two domains, Pipulate and Levinux, and discussing imposter syndrome and how financial worth isn't a measure of someone's validity. Join me in my journey as I explore the world of tech and info tech and learn how to make your home cozy and inviting.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-zero-windows-to-linux-in-8-steps/">From Zero (Windows) to Linux In 8 Steps</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a series of videos to help people transition from Windows to Linux, covering topics such as uninstalling OneDrive, unpinning the taskbar, changing settings and personalization, turning off notifications and weather, and more. Plus, I'll show you what installing Linux on a Windows 10 computer looks like. Click through to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/turning-python-huey-data-pipeline-into-schedule-repo-alternative/">Turning Python Huey Data Pipeline into Schedule Repo Alternative</a> (Sat Aug 06, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered Huey, a task scheduler for Python that is similar to Schedule but with the added convenience of a huey_consumer.py file that is automatically added to the command-line path after a pip install. I'm currently in the process of transitioning my scheduler and data pipeline dask queue from two Linux containers to Huey on my Windows system. Read my blog post to learn more about this transition!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-is-not-easy-to-do-real-life-or-linux/">Moving Is Not Easy To Do: Real-life or Linux</a> (Thu Jul 21, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved, and it was a lot of work to stay organized. Moving to a new place has allowed me to think things through and reorient myself, and I'm looking to establish momentum, reacquire my equilibrium, and keep creating. Unfortunately, I've found that Windows 11 doesn't let you hide taskbar icons, and even hacks to remove the clock don't work. Read my blog post to find out how I'm dealing with the transition.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/remain-positive-know-signs-of-when-you-re-doing-something-right/">Remain Positive & Know Signs Of When You're Doing Something Right</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big move back to New York and embracing the challenge. I'm learning to think more deeply, choose who I want to be, and move my life forward like a scientist. I'm no longer allowing myself to stay stuck and instead am taking action to do what's right. Read my blog post to find out more about my journey and how I'm staying positive during this transition.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/command-line/">Command-Line</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/label/">Labels</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>