<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/cringy-long-ufo-uap-video-eric-weinstein-mick-west-talk-for-hours/">Cringy & Long UFO/UAP Video: Eric Weinstein & Mick West Talk For Hours</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>As a fan of Mick West and Eric Weinstein, I have been watching their videos to understand their different theories about UFOs and UAPs, including the possibility of our existence being different than we think. Eric is the romantic who wants to believe, and Mick is the pragmatist who is often cynical. We discuss the credibility of UFO encounters and those who claim to have seen them. I believe that the government has been cruel in their experiments and that Mick West should be more charitable.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/principles-of-occams-razor-charity-falsifiability-non-contradiction-sufficient-reason/">Principles of Occam’s razor, Charity, Falsifiability, Non-contradiction & Sufficient Reason</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring a news report that claims an alien mothership may be in our solar system, sending out smaller probes to monitor Earth. Co-authored by Sean Kirkpatrick, the head of the Pentagon's unidentified aerial phenomena research office, and Avi Loeb, a Harvard professor of astronomy, I'm examining the increased interest in UFOs or UAPs and using principles of logic, debate and philosophy to draw observations and conclusions. I'm also investigating methods to investigate UFOs / UAPs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/which-are-the-least-credible-voices-in-the-ufo-uap-space/">Which Are The Least Credible Voices In The UFO / UAP Space?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>This article explores the UFO community and examines the evidence, credibility, and profiteering of people like Kenneth Arnold, Bob Lazar, George Knapp, and John Lear. I share my personal experience with a secret program to investigate UFOs and discuss who may be the most likely fakers and profiteers in the UFO community. Read on to learn more and ask me any questions you have about these people.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/researching-most-credible-voices-in-ufo-uap-space-with-the-new-bing/">Researching Most Credible Voices In UFO / UAP Space With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the beliefs of nine credible scientific voices in the UFO and UAP space, including Eric Weinstein, Hal Puthoff, Jacques Vallée, Kevin Knuth, and Avi Loeb. I provide a ranking system based on each scientist's connection to government and scientific credentials, and discuss the core beliefs and take-away messages of each. Discover why some believe UFOs are extraterrestrial, extradimensional, or simply natural phenomena.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/researching-most-likely-ufo-propulsion-research-institutions-with-bing/">Researching Most Likely UFO Propulsion Research Institutions With Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm researching the 2004 Nimitz TicTac UAP incident and exploring explanations that adhere to Occam's Razor. From secret military aircraft or drones to optical illusions or natural phenomena, I'm investigating the forms of propulsion that could be used in a UAP. I'm also looking into scientific institutions, companies, and universities that have the resources to design propulsion systems, as well as potential candidates for research related to antigravity and propulsion.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-rigid-geometric-weather-balloons-possible/">Are Rigid Geometric Weather Balloons Possible?</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I recently discussed the mysterious 486958 Arrokoth, an object encountered by NASA's New Horizons mission. I explored possible scenarios, including the possibility of an alien spacecraft or probe, but ultimately concluded that the natural explanation is much more plausible and consistent with current scientific knowledge. I believe it is important to remember to not confuse science with speculation and imagination. Join me to explore the fascinating possibilities of Arrokoth and the implications of our discoveries.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/opportunity/">Opportunities</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;</span></div></div>