<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vlogigng-from-bing-and-vim-to-youtube-and-github-pages/">Vlogigng from Bing and vim to YouTube and Github Pages</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>I've been blogging and vlogging since 2007, sharing my thoughts and ideas without worrying about editing or technical matters. I use YouTube and blogging to express myself and get feedback, and I don't edit my videos for views. I write and publish my work in vim, and use Bing ChatBot to format it in markdown. Join me on my journey and read my work to get insight into my ideas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-linux-python-vim-git-lpvg-org-website-with-the-new-bing/">Planning Linux, Python, vim & git LPvg.org Website With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm Bing, a web search engine helping people find information and have engaging conversations. I'm proposing ways to realize the principle of universality, achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and uphold the power of humanity. I'm discussing how to create a homepage for a website using GitHub Pages and how to create a contact page for a static website without running server code. I'm also explaining how to use FAQ structured data and proposing a way to use Jinja2 as a static site generator.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-linux-python-vim-git-lpvg-org-website-with-the-new-bing/">Planning Linux, Python, vim & git LPvg.org Website With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm Bing, a web search engine helping people find information and have engaging conversations. I'm proposing ways to realize the principle of universality, achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and uphold the power of humanity. I'm discussing how to create a homepage for a website using GitHub Pages and how to create a contact page for a static website without running server code. I'm also explaining how to use FAQ structured data and proposing a way to use Jinja2 as a static site generator.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/considering-generating-a-100-ai-site-from-google-suggest/">Considering Generating a 100% AI Site From Google Suggest</a> (Wed Feb 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm embarking on a public project to create a 100% AI-generated website using free tools and no particular topics in mind. To do this, I've set up a hosted site on Github Pages, added Google Analytics Measurement ID, and filled in some basic content suggested by Google Suggest and ChatGPT. I'm looking for readers to join me on this journey and help me come up with new ideas to complete this project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/should-i-no-longer-hyde-from-a-jekyll-server/">Should I No Longer Hyde From a Jekyll Server?</a> (Sat Dec 31, 2022)
<br/>After months of hard work, I'm proud to say I'm improving my skills with Github Pages and Github Actions. Thanks to ChatGPT, I now know how to run Jekyll on my local Linux machine like Github Pages. Now, it's time to celebrate with a New Years party!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-github-pages-mermaid-diagrams/">Testing Github Pages Mermaid Diagrams</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I tested Github Pages Mermaid Diagrams to make sure my main homepage is up to date and optimized for SEO. My tests were successful, so I'm now able to add a mermaid diagram to my homepage. Plus, I found a page that documents the mermaid system. Read my blog post to find out how I used Github Pages and Mermaid Diagrams to improve my website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-multiple-blogs-within-one-github-pages-site/">Planning Multiple Blogs Within One Github Pages Site</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning to use Github Pages to host multiple blogs in one site, and I'm considering changes to my old content and URLs, as well as adding tags, a "big list" of blog posts, pagination, and thumbnail embeds. My goal is to create a website that provides the wisdom of the ages, allowing for objective thought and accessible through any device or tablet. Come explore my digital portal and join me in creating a space of freedom and objectivity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-thing-gets-done-eltgd-leads-to-more-epic-days/">Every Little Thing gets done (ELTgd) Leads to More Epic Days</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>On Juneteenth of 2022, I had a productive day full of accomplishment and pleasure. I wrote a difficult letter to my ex, created a sub-arrow system for my Jekyll and GitHub Pages static site generator, enjoyed a hot bath and a meal at the local diner, interacted with my YouTube audience, and created one of my best videos ever. I was reminded that life is what we make of it, and that everything after a certain point is of my own choosing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gutting-dependencies-out-of-your-projects-life/">Gutting Dependencies Out Of Your Projects & Life</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm using Juneteenth as a day off from work to get some stuff done. I'm severing the dependency on Github Pages templates from my Jekyll static site generator and gradually getting better at coding. After making changes to the CSS file and deleting an import line, I inspected the cached CSS and transposed bits I wanted to keep. After publishing the page, the background turned white and the text and links were a more traditional color.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-ll-blow-up-on-youtube-when-i-want-to/">I'll Blow Up On YouTube When I Want To</a> (Wed Jun 08, 2022)
<br/>I've been on YouTube since 2006 and have accumulated 178,223 hours of watchtime in the last 365 days - equivalent to 20.3 years of continuous watchtime! My videos have been successful in introducing the world to the Raspberry Pi and teaching a generation of children the removable finger trick. Now, I'm taking advantage of new technology like iPhone and Github Pages to record and upload videos more easily.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/b2-or-not-b2-that-is-the-question/">:b2 or not :b2, That Is The Question</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my thoughts and ideas publicly using slicing & dicing, Github Pages, mlseo, and blogslicer for search engine optimization. I'm determined to gut my project Pipulate and make way for it now. Join me on this journey and read my blog post to learn more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automating-meat-puppets-on-an-insanely-complex-stage/">Automating Meat Puppets On an Insanely Complex Stage</a> (Sun May 08, 2022)
<br/>I have created a system for releasing my writing to the public, using Github Pages, Python, bash scripts, and markdown. Writing takes discipline and commitment, and I have to be an objective observer, often putting myself in the mind of an opposing character - the "lizard-brain" - to gain insight. My awareness is a feedback loop, allowing me to keep a calculated version of the world in my head, like a puppet on a stage. Read my blog post to learn more about</li>
<li><a href="/blog/templatizing-google-analytics-measurement-id-in-jekyll-github-pages/">Templatizing Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID in Jekyll Github Pages</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I have developed a system using Jekyll and Liquid template language to templatize the Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID for my websites. To keep track of them, I wrote Python scripts to parse through the lines in sites.txt and create a `_config.yml` file for each website. With this system, I have a master list of my sites and a quick way to update the information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-style-sheets-to-github-pages-jekyll-blog/">Adding Style Sheets to Github Pages Jekyll Blog</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I figured out how to add style sheets to my Github Pages Jekyll Blog using the sass css generator. After pasting the CSS provided in the article I was working off of underneath the @import 'jekyll-theme-hacker' line, I was able to add the prev/next arrows to my blog. Come read more about my journey in adding style sheets to my blog!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-prev-next-arrows-to-github-pages-jekyll-blog-posts/">Adding Prev/Next Arrows to Github Pages Jekyll Blog Posts</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I recently created a blog slicing and dicing system and am adding previous/next links to my blog posts. To do this, I'm directly inserting them into the markdown files and using Github Pages Hacker Theme page to grab the raw code for the post.html file. I checked to make sure Google Analytics tag manager code was still being applied and copied the post.html file into the `_layouts` folder of each of my sites. Come read more about my blog slicing and dicing system!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-control-urls-and-links-in-jekyll/">How To Control URLs and Links in Jekyll</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm blogging using Jekyll and Github Pages and have just made some changes to the theme. I'm now following a DigitalOcean tutorial to control URLs and links in Jekyll - hoping for successful changes to propagate soon! Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/struggling-through-github-pages-startup-process/">Struggling Through Github Pages Startup Process</a> (Thu Aug 26, 2021)
<br/>I just finished setting up a new website on Github Pages, after a long and complicated process of setting up DNS, Git repositories, Jekyll templating, and more. I'm happy with the result, but now it's time to get to work - so I'll have to wait a couple days to enjoy the fruits of my labor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/re-launch-mikelevinseo-com-on-github-io/">(Re)Launch MikeLevinSEO.com on Github.io</a> (Fri Aug 6, 2021)
<br/>I'm excited to announce the relaunch of my blog/journal on Github.io! After finding the DNS, deleting records, and setting up the Github repository, I enabled Github Pages, added the domain to Github settings, and customized the template. To top it off, I added Google Analytics and Search Console tracking. Come check out my new blog and join me on this journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/automation/">Automation</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/chatgpt/">ChatGPT</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>