<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gonna-get-bing-to-name-an-emerging-new-field/">Gonna Get Bing to Name An Emerging New Field</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>As a content producer, I'm exploring how SEO has evolved to include AI, and I'm proposing a new name for this field of marketing. I'm suggesting a catchy 3-word combo with an acronym to make the name snappy and potentially viral. Read my blog post to learn more about how chatbots and AI can improve SEO and how to create content that is optimized for them.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-chat-with-chatgpt-about-the-cancel-culture-full-scroll-browser-snapshots/">A Chat with ChatGPT About the Cancel Culture & Full-scroll Browser Snapshots</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I discuss the potential of using AI at home with now cheap GPUs, exploring the improved efficiency, enhanced security, better health monitoring, and entertainment and education it can provide. Additionally, I explore potential ways to make money by promoting the ideas and benefits of AI at home, such as through affiliate marketing, advertising, consulting, and e-commerce. I also provide a code example of how to use Puppeteer or Playwright to capture the full vertical scroll.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linear-algebra-from-chatgpt/">Learning Linear Algebra From ChatGPT</a> (Wed Feb 15, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring linear algebra using Python, and I'm learning how to solve systems of linear equations, matrix multiplication, eigenvalues, and singular value decomposition. With the help of NumPy, I'm gaining a better understanding of the concepts and applications of linear algebra. I'm also discovering the potential of AI language models, such as ChatGPT, which can help clarify my vision and provide information on TV programs like Person of Interest.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-my-moves-as-machines-rise/">Planning My Moves As Machines Rise</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>I am a 52-year-old marketer who has been trying to use the past to inform my decisions and understand the rise of machines. After recently losing my job, I am looking to start my own international education initiative, LPvg.org, and charge people $10/month for spiritual guidance and a competitive edge. I have also updated my Twitter profile to promote my blog and YouTube channel, as well as my latest venture, Pipulate.com/MLGL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/write-python-webcrawler-toil-talk-w-audience/">Write Python Webcrawler! Toil & Talk w/Audience</a> (Thu May 26, 2022)
<br/>As a professional programmer, I'm exploring the world of webcrawling with Python. I'll discuss how to avoid recursion and use iteration, as well as key-value data-stores, Python context managers, user agents, and the DRY principle. I'll also compare Python to other languages like RUST, and discuss the challenges of being a programmer in the digital age. Join me as I explore the world of programming and share my secret weapons as a tech Samurai!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/drinkme/">DrinkMe</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/sharing/">Sharing</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>