<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/automatically-log-into-moz-pro-with-playwright-browser-automation/">Automatically Log Into MOZ Pro with Playwright Browser Automation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post will walk you through using Microsoft Playwright's browser automation software to automatically log into MOZ Pro and download Keyword Explorer data for each subdomain. Using asynchronous mode and my standard Chrome automation template, I am logging into the MOZ Pro website and using the Keyword Explorer feature to pull keywords from a given site with the help of the async Python library. Read on to learn how to automate this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tackling-moz-browser-automation-until-i-get-it-right/">Tackling MOZ Browser Automation Until I Get It Right</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm tackling browser automation with the MOZ Links API and Chrome, and have set up a Playwright context on a Linux server. I'm writing code to automate tasks for MOZ Pro, and running the code from the command line with "python mozpro.py -k" to analyze keywords and download the results. Join me on my journey as I explore the possibilities of automated browser tasks with MOZ Pro!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-many-roads-must-a-man-walk-down-before-microsoft-gets-you-to-bing/">How many roads must a man walk down before Microsoft gets you to Bing?</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>As a new laptop owner, I'm exploring my options for browsers and chat. I'm considering switching to Chrome, but I'm intrigued by Edge's features. After doing some research, I've learned that there are many paths to Bing chat. Read my blog post to learn more about my experience with my new laptop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-is-disincentivizing-installing-chrome-changing-default-search/">Microsoft is disincentivizing Installing Chrome & Changing Default Search</a> (Sat Feb 25, 2023)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I'm fascinated by Microsoft's bold move to power AI ChatBot responses with Azure cloud computing and disincentivize users from installing Chrome or changing their default search settings. This could have a huge impact on Google's main revenue stream and completely shift the landscape of the tech industry. Learn more about this fascinating development and its potential implications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-chrome-for-linux-under-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Google Chrome for Linux Under LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Wed Sep 21, 2022)
<br/>I succeeded in getting Google Chrome up and running on my Linux system using LXD on WSL on Windows. I followed several steps to make sure the configuration settings would survive between reinstalls, and I'm thrilled to be able to launch it with google-chrome. After some hard work, I'm finally able to enjoy the fruits of my labor!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/playwright/">Playwright</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/journal.md/">Journal.md</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>