<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automatically-log-into-moz-pro-with-playwright-browser-automation/">Automatically Log Into MOZ Pro with Playwright Browser Automation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post will walk you through using Microsoft Playwright's browser automation software to automatically log into MOZ Pro and download Keyword Explorer data for each subdomain. Using asynchronous mode and my standard Chrome automation template, I am logging into the MOZ Pro website and using the Keyword Explorer feature to pull keywords from a given site with the help of the async Python library. Read on to learn how to automate this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tackling-moz-browser-automation-until-i-get-it-right/">Tackling MOZ Browser Automation Until I Get It Right</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm tackling browser automation with the MOZ Links API and Chrome, and have set up a Playwright context on a Linux server. I'm writing code to automate tasks for MOZ Pro, and running the code from the command line with "python mozpro.py -k" to analyze keywords and download the results. Join me on my journey as I explore the possibilities of automated browser tasks with MOZ Pro!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-playwright-codegen-and-playwright-inspector-tools/">Python Playwright CodeGen and Playwright Inspector Tools</a> (Thu Dec 08, 2022)
<br/>I'm using the Python Playwright CodeGen and Playwright Inspector Tools to make automation easier. With the built-in tools I can record my browser activity and generate code for it. After experimenting with different commands, I was able to successfully run the python -m playwright codegen --target python-async command, allowing me to record my automation code in JupyterLab. I also created two templates for easier development.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/slug/">Slugs</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/chrome/">Chrome</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>