<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/get-my-cause-jupyter-ubuntu-jupyter-notebook-on-ubuntu-on-windows/">Get My Cause? Jupyter Ubuntu! (Jupyter Notebook on Ubuntu on Windows)</a> (Sat Aug 05, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to install Jupyter Notebook on Ubuntu on Windows with this step-by-step guide. Follow along as Mike Lev.in walks you through the process of setting up a server-build script, renaming the drinkme repo, and creating a Jupyter Ubuntu.bat script to install JupyterLab on Ubuntu Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/mykoz-areal-os-an-independent-nomatic-digital-home/">MyKoz: AReal/OS, An Independent, Nomatic Digital Home</a> (Sat Aug 05, 2023)
<br/>Discover MyKoz AReal/OS, an independent, nomadic digital home that offers Tow-it-ism, a modern approach to finding value in life by mastering simple, lasting skills. With a powerful user experience, the installer script adds a JupyterLab icon and Bash icon, with the War Games 'Would you like to play a game' typing effect.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/turning-windows-macs-into-legitimate-modern-development-platforms/">Turning Windows & Macs into Legitimate Modern Development Platforms</a> (Sat May 20, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss the importance of my maintaining a standard Windows desktop background and the advantages of using Linux containers on Windows and Mac. I also talk about the history of Microsoft's NT architecture and the emergence of WSL, Ubuntu 20.04, and the Microsoft Store. I further explore the implications of the Oracle-owned VirtualBox and the Canonical-owned Snap store, as well as the need for a Linux kernel on Macs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-default-behavior-of-m2-mac-preparing-to-write-mac-drinkme/">Exploring Default Behavior of M2 Mac, Preparing to Write Mac DrinkMe</a> (Sat May 13, 2023)
<br/>Follow my exploration of the default behavior of an M2 Mac as I prepare to write a Mac DrinkMe install for Undisruptible Linux. I investigate running bash scripts on Mac with a double-click, the old .app bundling technique, and the ability to open apps from unidentified developers using control-click. I refresh myself on Mac's excellent virtual desktop implementation and built-in screen recording feature.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/e-e-a-t-the-new-google-quality-guidelines/">E-E-A-T The New Google Quality Guidelines</a> (Fri Dec 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm focusing on exuding Google's Quality Guidelines, E-E-A-T, by creating unique and genuine content that demonstrates my experience. I'm also keeping dependencies low and updating the Levinux index.html file, as well as making sure the DrinkMe script is accessible. Join me as I take you through my journey to follow Google's Quality Guidelines.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/with-ai-on-the-way-you-had-better-be-able-to-write-daemons/">With AI On The Way, You Had Better Be Able to Write Daemons</a> (Tue Dec 13, 2022)
<br/>I am engaging in controlled burns of my personal sites to optimize them for SEO, creating video content, writing to express my thoughts, taking up a "magic spell" to free myself from Windows dependency, and planting the seed of my vibe on a homepage kernel. I am a wizard or mad scientist who wants to lead people through their WSL experience with a twist, warn them of the allures of vendor-ware, and promote HTML5, JavaScript, C, and Unix.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-an-imposter-have-you-heard-of-imposter-syndrome/">Are You An Imposter? Have You Heard of Imposter Syndrome?</a> (Sat Dec 10, 2022)
<br/>As a New York SEO expert, I'm making my home cozy and inviting while encouraging people to familiarize themselves with tech and info tech. I'm leveraging my two domains, Pipulate and Levinux, and discussing imposter syndrome and how financial worth isn't a measure of someone's validity. Join me in my journey as I explore the world of tech and info tech and learn how to make your home cozy and inviting.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-added-linux-graphics-and-systemd-to-wsl-for-windows-10/">Microsoft Added Linux Graphics and Systemd to WSL for Windows 10</a> (Sun Nov 27, 2022)
<br/>I recently installed Linux graphics and Systemd on Windows 10, and now I'm exploring the aftermath. I'm researching how to make the vGPU accessible and usable, mapping locations and environment variables, and setting up the WAYLAND_DISPLAY and XDG_RUNTIME_DIR. I'm looking into lxdwin script, Levinux/Getonux projects, and lxc config set to configure the jupyter environment. Join me as I explore the aftermath of this installation!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-automated-install-script-for-lxd-jupyter-on-wsl/">Writing Automated Install Script for LXD & Jupyter on WSL</a> (Wed Sep 14, 2022)
<br/>This article describes my attempt to use JupyterLab under LXC and my progress on an automated install script for LXD and Jupyter on WSL. I'm also trying to simulate the tftp tricks I've done in Levinux and make my own bit optional graphics build. Read on to find out more about my journey and how it can help you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bring-pipulate-levinux-back-into-the-picture/">Bring Pipulate & Levinux Back Into The Picture</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm restructuring my MikeLev.in website, developing Pipulate.com, and upgrading my CMS system. I'm also aware of the need to make Levinux and Pipulate more mainstream, and to get back my PyPI account access. Join me as I work to make these changes and more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/levinux-a-small-linux-distro-without-gui-for-education/">Levinux, a Small Linux Distro without GUI for Education</a> (Sun May 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mike Levinux and I created Levinux, a Linux distro designed to help people learn Unix/Linux. It includes components such as Tiny Core Linux, QEMU, BusyBox, and a virtual Linux, plus a file-transfer system and a server-building script system. I advocate for the use of Vim and Git for security, and suggest using Python and forward-slashes for code that will run anywhere.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/pipulate/">Pipulate</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/microsoft/">Microsoft</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>