<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/calcium-foss-make-flexible-tools/">Calcium & FOSS Make Flexible Tools</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I've been exploring text editors and I've come to the realization that they are close to being tools in our bodies like calcium-based structures like bones. I believe that text editors are the most personal of all software, and AI is evolving AI to express itself inside them along with us. We're designing ourselves in another sort of Cambrian Explosion. Read my blog post to discover why I'm an optimist despite pervasive pessimistic arguments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learnings-from-weekend-openai-keyword-extraction-clustering-project/">Learnings From Weekend OpenAI Keyword Extraction & Clustering Project</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently used the OpenAI API to gain hands-on experience with keyword extraction and clustering to create a story-like visualization in the console. I applied the 80/20 rule to solve the issue of errors with structured lists, and gained new respect for Vim/NeoVim and caution for VSCode. I'm now using NeoVim and Copilot to finish a data project, and have discovered that machines being intelligent now means that I have a virtual assistant.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/project-deteriorates-into-tools-discussion-again/">Project Deteriorates Into Tools Discussion Again</a> (Fri Apr 14, 2023)
<br/>I started a project in MOZ Pro by selecting a domain and downloading the CSV file. I then added 30_data.ipynb to the repo, using the apex domain as part of the filename. After that, I had a list of competitors and I could pull their keywords. I was tempted to try VSCode running as a Linux app on WSL, but the UI was too clunky. I share my experience in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/better-living-through-text-editors/">Better Living Through Text Editors</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is striving to become more independent from AI and the corporate world, I'm learning to use a text editor to become more deliberate and thoughtful. I'm using OpenAI API to slice and dice my journal.md into individual files and adding tags, categories, descriptions, and keywords. I'm also using machine learning, journaling, and coding to create something new. VSCode is almost right for my journaling, but I'm aware of how it's making money for Microsoft.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/notebook-based-browser-automation-with-nbdev/">Notebook-based Browser Automation With NBDev</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a journal to document my journey of improving my life with NBDev. NBDev makes writing code easier and more organized, and it's a great improvement over VSCode's Jupyter Notebook extension. I had some trouble shooting a video with OBS, but the nbdev_export worked well. Follow my journey as I document my successes and learn from my mistakes!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cope-thrive-through-ai-induced-existential-crisis/">How To Cope & Thrive Through AI-Induced Existential Crisis</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO specialist, I'm exploring how to cope and thrive in this AI-induced existential crisis. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, vim & git tools and habits to expand my coding capabilities. I'm confronting my fears of AI and learning that it's not a replacement for humans, but a tool to help them. Through this journey, I'm discovering how AI can create new opportunities and make jobs easier and more efficient. Join me on my journey to gain a better understanding.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-free-open-source-seo-software-youtube-reply/">Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO Software YouTube Reply</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>Join me in developing Pipulate, an open-source SEO software powered by Linux, Python, JupyterLab, and Raspberry Pi's. I'm creating a 24/7 service to do SERP scraping, HTML report emailing, and more. Plus, I'm working on a way to simplify the scripts and update the W - come join me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-the-linux-nomadic-movement-with-the-new-bing/">Imagining The Linux Nomadic Movement With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a developer who values speed, productivity and ergonomics, I have been using Vim since 1976 and it has proven to be a reliable and robust tool. With a large and active community that provides support, documentation and plugins for various purposes, Vim offers advantages over VSCode, such as rapid key sequences, not requiring arrow keys, and performing complex operations with minimal keystrokes. Join me in the Linux nomadic movement.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/like-microsoft-always-said-try-to-put-a-bing-in-the-universe/">Like Microsoft Always Said, Try To Put a Bing In The Universe</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert, I love helping people find what they need online, but I despise how it is used to promote and shill poor-quality products. In the past, Google encouraged the creation of large websites with interconnected content to make them more discoverable, but this caused a lot of technical debt. Microsoft is now taking advantage of this by controlling Windows, Github, VSCode, and the default browser on the desktop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-road-to-microsoft-semi-independence/">The Road to Microsoft Semi-Independence</a> (Tue Jan 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to promote Free and Open Source SEO Software and show people how to set up a server on their Windows 10 or 11 laptops. I'm encouraging people to use Linux as a standard feature on Windows 10 and 11 via the Windows Subsystem for Linux and to be aware of Microsoft's paid services. I'm suggesting using vim instead of VSCode, as it is an industry standard and not tied to a vendor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/beware-the-re-corralling/">Beware the Re-Corralling</a> (Fri Jan 06, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the need to stay up-to-date with the latest technological advancements and the potential for AI to disrupt our lives. To prevent becoming too reliant on AI, I suggest running scripts from home to republish blogs and switching to Linux or Unix systems instead of Windows. I also provide tips on how to use modern computer technology, such as connecting to remote computers through SSH, transmitting files with git, editing files with vim, and controlling servicew with the CLI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-technology-predictions-for-2023/">My Technology Predictions For 2023</a> (Sun Dec 18, 2022)
<br/>As we enter 2023, I predict a shift from "does it blend" videos to "is it sentient" videos. Fusion will become self-sustaining, but set back 30 years. Python will adopt a Frenchman as its mascot, Elon Musk will release a Starlink phone without a telecom provider, and Microsoft will make VSCode a requirement for WSL2. Finally, I'll reveal that we have maglev antigravity technology, but it's not what you expect.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/internalizing-tools-through-eepigenetics/">Internalizing Tools Through Eepigenetics</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>This article reflects on my journey in life, discussing the concept of epigenetics and Mike Levin, a microbiologist who shares my name and is a hero of mine. I explore my experiences in life, including falling victim to shortcut-seekers and narcissists, and how I am learning to make sure I don't lose myself to someone else. I have embraced my environment by finding my tools, and have realized the importance of incorporating VSCode into my DNA. I discuss the power of text editors.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/livestreaming-question-answers-with-youtube-audience/">Livestreaming Question & Answers With YouTube Audience</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have been made obsolete by so many things, but I'm using the tools Microsoft is providing to stay relevant. In this video, I discuss how knowledge workers bring their minds and capabilities to their job, and how I use my own CMS called Skite to take notes and organize my work. I also share tips on avoiding vendor traps and obsolescence resistance, such as using Python dict API, Sqlite3, Django and Flask, and the Unix Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-macro-to-format-markdown-poetry/">vim Macro to Format Markdown Poetry</a> (Fri May 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm talking about how to use vim to break free from Microsoft, how they are trying to steal Jupyter's features, and why their attempt to create their own version of Unix, Xenix, flopped. I'm also discussing how writing in vim is like driving and how it can free up your executive function for more difficult tasks, and how writing every day can help you become more proficient with your tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/easy-peasy-computer-literacy/">Easy Peasy Computer Literacy</a> (Fri May 20, 2022)
<br/>At 50 years old, I discovered my passion for Linux, Python, vim & git, and have been mastering it for 10 years. I use JupyterLab for learning, and am concerned about relying on vendor-driven power-tools like VSCode. To combat this, I'm following the JupyterLab contributors on Github and Twitter to ensure the Mac and Windows versions are up-to-date. Read my article to learn more about the divide between VSCode.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/enabling-vim-s-visual-block-mode-on-linux-wsl-ctrl-v/">Enabling vim's Visual Block mode on Linux WSL (Ctrl+v)</a> (Wed May 11, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered a powerful feature of vim called Visual Block mode, which allows you to quickly add text to multiple lines. However, this feature wasn't available in the Microsoft Terminal program when running vim under Linux in Windows via WSL. After a few steps, I was determined to figure out how to activate this feature and eventually succeeded. Learn how I overcame the challenge and how you can activate Visual Block mode in vim.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/bing/">Bing</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/jupyter-notebook/">Jupyter Notebook</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>