<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/using-google-photos-api-to-generate-main-archive-favorite-media-lists/">Using Google Photos API to Generate Main, Archive & Favorite Media Lists</a> (Fri Feb 03, 2023)
<br/>I'm using Google Photos API to generate three databases - 'all', 'main', and 'favorites' - and an 'archive' database. I'm using Python functions to query the API, store the results, and create custom labeled tuples with a start date and end date. I'm also chunking the project into week-by-week chunks, making it easier to manage. This code provides a way to make the code clearer and easier to understand.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sorting-by-histogram-intersections-with-kmeans-clustering/">Sorting by Histogram Intersections with KMeans Clustering</a> (Sun Jan 15, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the KMeans clustering algorithm to better understand how it works. To do this, I'm using the Elbow method to determine the optimal number of clusters and then using the KMeans fit method to sort the data into the chosen number of clusters. I plotted a scatter graph with x and y values, and used the kmeans.labels_ parameter to color code the points and clearly show the clusters that had been formed.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/analyzing-the-karate-club-3d-node-graph/">Analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a 3D rotating shape from a website using Linux Jupyter on Windows. I'm analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph and have written code to plot it. I'm exploring NetworkX, a Python library for creating and manipulating graphs, to create a networkx.classes.graph.Graph object and plotting nodes and edges in 3D space. I'm using Plotly to generate a 3D rotating network node graph with different colored nodes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage</li>
<li><a href="/blog/yes-i-am-a-dick-bucket/">Yes, I Am a Dick Bucket</a> (Tue May 17, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share my experience of an important moment of growth with my child, where we discussed the differences between male and female. I discuss how to identify signs of a closed mind, and how controlling your breath is the first step to emotional growth. Read this blog post to learn how to foster meaningful conversations and grow emotionally.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/in-defense-of-flying-monkeys-recrimination-of-anti-narc-community/">In Defense of Flying Monkeys & Recrimination of Anti-Narc Community</a> (Mon May 16, 2022)
<br/>As someone who has been accused of being a narcissist, I have opened my mind to the subject and come to the conclusion that most people are not a problem unless they are really a problem. I advocate for a hybrid school system so children have the opportunity to learn without labels and group-think. Furthermore, I believe terms like "gaslighting" and "winged monkeys" are often misused and do not fully capture the complexity of the situation. My suggestion to the anti-narciss</li>
<li><a href="/blog/roomba-poobah-applesauce/">Roomba Poobah Applesauce</a> (Sun May 08, 2022)
<br/>In this post, I explore the implications of Artificial Intelligence and its potential to be considered an art form. I reflect on the Roomba robot vacuum cleaner and how its backoff-and-retry algorithms can be applied to life. I also encourage love and empathy for those being raised by AI, suggesting they read The Culture series by Ian M. Banks. Finally, I end with a light-hearted rhyme to motivate readers to not hold back and to look for the little wins. Read</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/transition/">Transition</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/loop/">Loop</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>