<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-structured-graphics-foss/">Seeking Structured Graphics FOSS</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>Bing is exploring feedback loops and free and open source software (FOSS) for diagramming. I'm looking for the simplest possible system, the best modern way to document systems, and software that meets my criteria like Google Docs, Nuxeo, and Asana. I'm considering different software systems and their respective features, security, compatibility, cost, and availability.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/unix-linux-won-are-now-the-rules-of-the-road/">Unix/Linux Won & Are Now The Rules of The Road</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin is a 20+ year veteran of the SEO industry who has seen many changes in technology over the years. From his experience as a student intern at Commodore to his current knowledge of Intel Management Engine (IME) and its implications for privacy, Mike has a deep understanding of Unix/Linux and its ever-growing presence in the tech world. Read his blog post to learn more about his journey and the impact of Unix/Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-visualize-websites-as-network-node-graphs/">Let's Visualize Websites as Network Node Graphs</a> (Tue Dec 27, 2022)
<br/>I've been researching the best way to visualize large link and node graphs in Jupyter notebooks, comparing the advantages and disadvantages of using NetworkX and Bokeh, and have decided to try out Plotly. Over the holiday I made progress and outlined a plan to create 3D interactive visualizations in JupyterLab. I'm also teaching stakeholders how to access data on their own by setting up an instance of Linux WSL, installing nodejs and jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/on-being-unstoppable-apis-lxd-lxd-under-wsl2-success/">On Being Unstoppable, APIs & LXD / LXD Under WSL2 (Success!)</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who recently figured out how to log into a running LXD session from WSL2, I'm encouraging readers to not let anyone or anything stop them from advancing and learning. I use the example of Maxwell's Demon to explain how entropy can be overcome, and suggest using Linux Daemons to help us become Maxwell's Demon. I emphasize the importance of protecting the quality of information coming in and recognizing lies, as well as staying relentless in the pursuit of truth.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/graphic/">Graphics</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blogging/">Blogging</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>