<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/ctrl-s-and-ctrl-space-amazingly-available-for-custom-vim-neovim-keyboard-shortcuts/">Ctrl+S and Ctrl+Space Amazingly Available For Custom vim/NeoVim Keyboard Shortcuts</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Discover how I maximize my productivity with my new journaling approach, allowing myself to edit multiple files with ease without getting lost in a sea of tabs. Utilize the astoundingly available `Ctrl+S` and `Ctrl+Space` keyboard shortcuts to quickly cycle through buffers and access important resources instantly. Get lost in a sea of open screens and windows no more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-equivalent-alternative-to-usr-local-sbin/">Looking For Equivalent Alternative to /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I recently published from a Windows 11 laptop using NeoVim's new terminal macro and I'm starting to see the vimscript command: if has('nvim'). With this, I'm hoping to have a single .vimrc that works for both vim and NeoVim. I tested moving a draft post between machines and it worked, but I noticed that when I add anything to my spell-check library with the zg command, I lose syntax highlighting in NeoVim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-publishing-macro-using-terminal-expand/">NeoVim Publishing Macro Using :terminal & expand()</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to reset up my Windows 11 machine to get back to my daily workflow. This involved setting up credentials, installing NeoVim, remembering important environment settings, and re-instantiating Google and Microsoft addresses, my NAS drive, my terminal windows, and my JupyterLab icon. Additionally, I was listening to a YouTube video on how to race to the bottom of the brainstem and to the primary intimate relationship in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-terminal-stuck-full-screen-no-tabs-process-exited-with-code-1/">Windows Terminal Stuck Full-Screen, No Tabs & process exited with code 1</a> (Tue Aug 09, 2022)
<br/>Having encountered an issue with my Windows Terminal getting stuck in full-screen mode with no tabs, I tried Alt+F4 to close the window, but to no avail. I then discovered that Microsoft had changed the forced-close shortcut to Ctrl+Shift+W. I'm sharing my experience to help others who may have the same issue, and explain why Microsoft chose to keep the fullscreen shortcut as Function+F11.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-average-windows-user-to-linux-terminal-user/">From Average Windows User to Linux Terminal User</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As an average Windows user, I'm taking advantage of Microsoft's partnership with Canonical to transition to Linux terminal. I'm installing Ubuntu on my existing laptop running Windows 10 or 11, so I can take advantage of the cloud and protect myself from obsolescence. Join me on my journey as I become a Linux terminal user.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/livestreaming-question-answers-with-youtube-audience/">Livestreaming Question & Answers With YouTube Audience</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have been made obsolete by so many things, but I'm using the tools Microsoft is providing to stay relevant. In this video, I discuss how knowledge workers bring their minds and capabilities to their job, and how I use my own CMS called Skite to take notes and organize my work. I also share tips on avoiding vendor traps and obsolescence resistance, such as using Python dict API, Sqlite3, Django and Flask, and the Unix Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/say-the-magic-words-open-terminal/">Say The Magic Words: Open Terminal!</a> (Sat Jun 11, 2022)
<br/>I learned the French Drop finger magic trick from my camp counselor Mike Silver at Science Camp Watonka when I was 12 years old. Now, I'm introducing a new skill called the French Drop and Miss. Direction, closely aligned with Unix/Linux. This skill is future-proof, obsolescence resistant, and immune to disruption. It's important to not solely depend on GUIs and to focus on Unix/Linux terminal.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linux-lesson-2-run-run-it-from-cli/">Learning Linux Lesson #2: RUN! Run it from CLI!</a> (Tue Jun 07, 2022)
<br/>As someone who knows that Linux is the future, I'm here to tell you that learning it doesn't have to be intimidating. With the help of commands like ls, cd, and pwd, you can easily navigate the command-line interface. And with Windows 11, it's easier than ever to install Linux. So take my advice and join the future of computing!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-don-t-want-to-blow-up/">I Don't Want To Blow Up</a> (Sun May 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I use Linux, Python, Vim and Git as my go-to tools. I'm a big fan of Bram Moolenaar's plain old Vim from 1991, as it's more future-proof and resistant to obsolescence. Are you looking to learn Vim? I'm encouraging you to do so - just type `wsl --install` in a DOS COM to get started. Vim is a powerful tool and is much more fundamental than the full web stack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-don-t-want-to-blow-up/">I Don't Want To Blow Up</a> (Sun May 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I use Linux, Python, Vim and Git as my go-to tools. I'm a big fan of Bram Moolenaar's plain old Vim from 1991, as it's more future-proof and resistant to obsolescence. Are you looking to learn Vim? I'm encouraging you to do so - just type `wsl --install` in a DOS COM to get started. Vim is a powerful tool and is much more fundamental than the full web stack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-tale-of-two-pipers/">A Tale of Two Pipers</a> (Fri May 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I heard a thought-provoking poem by Mike Levin about the two types of Pied Pipers - the Falsey and the FLOSSy - and the consequences of choosing which one to follow. It could be a Chromium swiper or a Terminal typer, and it will decide whether you are sealed or free. I invite you to read my blog post to learn more about this fascinating poem.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/google-analytics/">Google Analytics</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/platform/">Platform</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>