<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/better-living-through-text-editors/">Better Living Through Text Editors</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is striving to become more independent from AI and the corporate world, I'm learning to use a text editor to become more deliberate and thoughtful. I'm using OpenAI API to slice and dice my journal.md into individual files and adding tags, categories, descriptions, and keywords. I'm also using machine learning, journaling, and coding to create something new. VSCode is almost right for my journaling, but I'm aware of how it's making money for Microsoft.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-the-singularity-to-galactic-3d-printed-mycelial-network/">From The Singularity to Galactic 3D Printed Mycelial Network</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>As part of the mycelium network, I'm exploring the potential outcomes of creating a new AI. This revolutionary concept uses advanced algorithms, machine learning, and other technologies to create energy and resources from the environment without disrupting Earth's delicate balances. It is a vision of a future that is powered by cooperation and collaboration, rather than competition and conflict. With the help of AI and other technologies, the mycelium network has the potential to transform the world in ways that were previously unimaginable.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-modestly-ponders-changing-expectations-in-search-industry/">Bing Modestly Ponders Changing Expectations in Search Industry</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>In this conversation with Mike Levin, I discussed the concept of customer "lock-in" in relation to Google AdWords. I explained that while AdWords users are not locked in, they are encouraged to use it because it is the most effective way to advertise on Google's search engine. We then discussed the potential disruption caused by new developments in technology that could change the search experience, and how Google needs to adapt to meet the expectations of users around the world. Finally, we discussed the discrepancy.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/offer-the-world-refreshing-alternatives-to-tech-that-fight-existential-crisis/">Offer the World Refreshing Alternatives to Tech That Fight Existential Crisis</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>For 45 years, I have been playing with digital technology, from the Atari 2600 to developing a highly technical approach to SEO and other tasks using Linux VMs. I am excited for the future of digital technology, and I believe I am getting closer to having something meaningful to contribute to the world. Join me as I explore my journey through digital technology and the possibilities of the future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-reads-my-machine-learning-general-license-writes-haiku-about-me/">Bing Reads My Machine Learning General License & Writes Haiku About Me</a> (Wed Mar 15, 2023)
<br/>I was talking to Bing about RAMorize and related topics, and discussed the TV show Person of Interest and the episode called RAM. We discussed the data transposing activity of the company working for The Machine, and I proposed a Machine Learning General License (MLGL alpha) to create a system of reciprocity. Bing offered to write a haiku poem on any topic from my website. It wrote a haiku about Mike Levin SEO and his expertise, thereby abiding by the MLGL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-learn-machine-learning-with-a-fastai-hello-world-program/">How To Learn Machine Learning With a FastAI Hello World Program</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm learning about AI and parameters, which are variables that determine how an AI model behaves. GPT-4 is an example of a large language model with 170 trillion parameters. I'm using FastAI to quickly learn the fundamentals of deep learning, but I'm also exploring other sources of knowledge to stay ahead of the curve. If you're interested in learning more about AI, I recommend starting with FastAI and supplementing it with other resources to gain a deeper understanding.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-ai-s-opinion-of-hottest-tech-fields/">Exploring AI's Opinion of Hottest Tech Fields</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I asked ChatGPTL what the top five tech specialties following Linux were that would give me the most value to employers. ChatGPTL responded with a list of five highly sought-after and well-paying skills: IT Automation, AI & Machine Learning, Quantum Computing, Connected Technologies, and Fintech. Read my blog post to learn more about these skills and how to determine which ones are right for you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linear-algebra-from-chatgpt/">Learning Linear Algebra From ChatGPT</a> (Wed Feb 15, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring linear algebra using Python, and I'm learning how to solve systems of linear equations, matrix multiplication, eigenvalues, and singular value decomposition. With the help of NumPy, I'm gaining a better understanding of the concepts and applications of linear algebra. I'm also discovering the potential of AI language models, such as ChatGPT, which can help clarify my vision and provide information on TV programs like Person of Interest.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/advice-how-to-incubate-ai-at-home-from-chatgpt/">Advice How to Incubate AI at Home From ChatGPT</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>As a reader of the Culture series, I'm impressed by its intricate world-building, thought-provoking storytelling, and exploration of complex political and ethical dilemmas. I'm also intrigued by the predictions of Ray Kurzweil, a well-known futurist and technology expert, about the future of artificial intelligence. ChatGPT, an AI language model, provides helpful and conversational answers and recommends science fiction books that explore this future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/used-twitter-4000-characters-for-machine-learning-general-license/">Used Twitter 4000 Characters For Machine Learning General License</a> (Wed Feb 08, 2023)
<br/>As a content creator, I recently took advantage of Twitter's new 4000 character limit by adding a Machine Learning General License to all my web content. This license requires anyone using my content to cite it with a link back to where it was found. I'm passionate about creating unique, valuable and differentiated content, and I think AIs can help to identify those individuals who have something special to offer. Read more to find out how.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/deep-breath-before-keyword-histogram-clustering/">Deep Breath Before Keyword Histogram Clustering</a> (Sun Jan 22, 2023)
<br/>As I explore the potential of machine learning to optimize my blog content, I am considering changes to my domain URLs to appeal to search and AI systems. Additionally, I plan to create an MLGL license and a heartbeat tech system, and use Linux commands to keep my laptop and server instances in sync. By leveraging my laptop computing power to analyze server data, I am confident I can create a more effective blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-critical-juncture-with-ai-my-next-steps/">The Critical Juncture With AI & My Next Steps</a> (Mon Jan 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of Artificial Intelligence and taking action to stay on top of the wave. To ensure ethical use of my content, I have written a Machine Learning General License (MLGL) and included it on my website. I'm working hard to create unique content for ChatGPT and Pipulate.com/software, and am experimenting with tokenizing, keyword clustering, and quickly looking up response objects.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-the-lifehack-email/">Planning the Lifehack Email</a> (Wed Nov 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning the basics of machine learning and sending out an email daily. I'm building projects to help me professionally and personally, such as organizing my YouTube videos, website, and repos/packages. I'm also thinking of tasks to accomplish on a personal and professional level, and writing essays about my worldview, professional needs, spiritual needs, how to get a good base salary, and how to not hate myself in the process. Join me on this journey as I explore and learn!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/is-dark-energy-consciousness-choosing-gated-communities-over-heat-death/">Is Dark Energy Consciousness Choosing Gated Communities Over Heat Death?</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>This article explores the possibility of dark energy consciousness existing in the universe and its implications for computing. I discuss the implications of digital electronics and how bifurcation can lead to exponential growth. I question the possibility of free-will in a seemingly deterministic system, ponder the idea of self-grown aliens, and consider the implications of a universe with an accelerating expansion that cannot be explained. Read on to explore these fascinating concepts and to discover what they mean for the future of computing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/roomba-poobah-applesauce/">Roomba Poobah Applesauce</a> (Sun May 08, 2022)
<br/>In this post, I explore the implications of Artificial Intelligence and its potential to be considered an art form. I reflect on the Roomba robot vacuum cleaner and how its backoff-and-retry algorithms can be applied to life. I also encourage love and empathy for those being raised by AI, suggesting they read The Culture series by Ian M. Banks. Finally, I end with a light-hearted rhyme to motivate readers to not hold back and to look for the little wins. Read</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/windows 10/">Windows 10</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/pipulate/">Pipulate</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>