<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/yaml-validation-now-baked-into-yamlesque-journaling-system/">YAML-validation Now Baked Into YAMLesque Journaling System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm a big fan of the Google App and seeing AI appear there via Google Discover. I'm enjoying watching Microsoft embracing and displacing Google with AI. I suggest people make automations they want to rule them. I wrote a poem about a fictional AI named Yahwanna. I'm also using AI ChatBots, OpenAI's GPT products, API-request, SQLite database, YAML, Mermaid diagram, and a local SQLite key-value store. And more if you can believe it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-the-day-discussing-the-future-with-bard/">Planning The Day & Discussing The Future With Bard</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm spending Good Friday working on my increasingly YAML-based blogging system. I'm exploring ways to make the index page more interesting and discussing with Bard about ways it collaborates with other LLMs. I'm also considering a nomadic lifestyle and need to make sure I'm prepared to use my Linux, Python, vim, and git skills to make money on the road, as well as ways to help Mike Levin kick-off a simplification movement in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-what-is-the-most-important-advice-in-life/">Bing: What is the most important advice in life?</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>On March 21, 2023, I asked Bing for the most important advice in life. Bing suggested I prioritize my tasks, take care of myself, and connect with others. When I asked what to do if I'm feeling alone, Bing suggested reaching out to someone I trust, finding a community, and taking care of myself. Finally, I asked what is the best thing I can do for my child and Bing suggested visiting the zoo, taking a book out of the library, and going for a walk.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/back-hurts-but-maintain-your-indomitable-spirit/">Back Hurts, But Maintain Your Indomitable Spirit</a> (Mon Feb 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting out to make a positive difference in my life and the lives of others today. My goals for the day include completing paperwork for my upcoming job, creating a new website, and organizing my home. I'm also taking care of my leopard gecko and staying engaged. My motivation is to make sure my child has a good experience in life and to help others feel good about life. I'm starting with the living room to make it a special place for my family.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/just-moving-life-forward/">Just Moving Life Forward</a> (Sun Nov 06, 2022)
<br/>Today is my child's 12th birthday and I'm taking the time to prepare for it. Unloading the car, I'm reflecting on the entanglement of things and how our lives are like quantized units of energy. Are we unique or part of the same rippling quantum field? I'm also reflecting on the Python command I programmed yesterday and its potential future uses. Join me as I explore these thoughts and prepare for a special day.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-on-your-own-in-life/">Being On Your Own In Life</a> (Sun Oct 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm in my mid-twenties and a single parent, working in the IT industry to provide for my child. I sometimes consider hitting the road in an RV, but I stay put for my family. Life is funny and I'm never really on my own. Read my story to find out more about my unique life journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dial-down-negativity-dial-up-positivity/">Dial-down Negativity & Dial-up Positivity</a> (Fri Apr 22, 2022)
<br/>As a parent, I'm striving to cultivate a more positive outlook on life and be a better role model for my 11 year old. Recently, I watched a YouTube video that opened my eyes to the importance of this, and now I'm looking for more videos to help me cultivate a positivity bias. Join me on my journey to be a better role model and read my blog post for more!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/evolution/">Evolution</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/excel/">Excel</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>