<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/write-python-function-for-blog-previous-next-arrows/">Write Python Function for Blog Previous Next Arrows</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a Python function to create blog navigation arrows. It takes the index position and length of a sequence, as well as a list of tuples containing hrefs and titles, and returns HTML for the prev/next arrows. This is now live on my category pages and I'm ready to add it to my Jekyll `_posts` pages too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recruiting-chatgpt-s-help-advocating-lpvg-toolset/">Recruiting ChatGPT's Help Advocating LPvg Toolset</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin and I'm looking for web-based APIs to help manage Linux system daemons through a Web UI. I'm open to using Flask or running it through Jupyter Notebooks in JupyterLab, hosted on the same Linux machine. I'm forking the .service file and running it as a GNU screen session to get the console-monitoring advantage. I use Linux virtual machines as a universal layer for interoperability and portability to make this skill timeless.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/meissner-effect-schwinger-effect-tictac-flux-liner/">Meissner Effect + Schwinger Effect = TicTac Flux Liner</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO working at MOZ, I recently pushed the limits of imagination and tested the boundaries of antigravity. I discussed this with ChatGPT, which led me to learn about the Pocono Conference in 1948 and the Shelter Island Conference in 1947. Through research and experimentation, I am now exploring the possibility of using the Meissner effect and the Schwinger effect for propulsion. I also develop a plan to market the TicTac Flux Liner, a revolutionary antigravity product.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-tale-of-3-daemons-laplace-s-maxwell-s-and-linux-s/">A Tale of 3 Daemons: Laplace's, Maxwell's and Linux's</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I wrote this tech diary to teach readers how to write bots using Python and to explore the contributions of famous scientists James Clerk Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann, and Pierre-Simon Laplace to physics. We discuss the fundamental flaws of Maxwell's and Laplace's daemons, AI language models, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, and complex and emergent behavior in slime mold, the Universe, and neural networks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linear-algebra-from-chatgpt/">Learning Linear Algebra From ChatGPT</a> (Wed Feb 15, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring linear algebra using Python, and I'm learning how to solve systems of linear equations, matrix multiplication, eigenvalues, and singular value decomposition. With the help of NumPy, I'm gaining a better understanding of the concepts and applications of linear algebra. I'm also discovering the potential of AI language models, such as ChatGPT, which can help clarify my vision and provide information on TV programs like Person of Interest.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plotting-a-post-scarcity-future-for-humanity-with-chatgpt/">Plotting a Post-Scarcity Future for Humanity with ChatGPT</a> (Tue Feb 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the x10, x100 rule of perception and how it might replace Google. With OpenAI's release of the first AI in 2022, I'm looking at how ChatGPT can help me create an AI sidekick persona and a roadmap for success. I'm also advocating for free and open-source software and the power of combining human abilities with technology. Join me as I discuss how to create a sustainable retirement gig.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-a-systemd-service-with-chatgpt/">Making a SystemD Service With ChatGPT</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>I'm writing a systemd service that uses GNU screen to run a python script in the background. In this blog post, I share the details of the service, including the command to be run, the user account to run the service as, and the environment variables to be set. I also explain the meaning of the word "majordomo" and how to create a nbdev version 2 project in a folder called majordaemo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rethinking-a-career-in-seo/">Rethinking a Career in SEO</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO professional, I am rethinking my career in light of the new era of search engines. Google's dominance has been challenged by ChatGPT and Microsoft, and content production techniques that don't add value are now being ignored. I'm noticing that Google is favoring incumbents more than ever, and the old PageRank system is slowly being replaced by other systems. I'm exploring the implications of this shift, and the impact it will have on my career.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/advice-how-to-incubate-ai-at-home-from-chatgpt/">Advice How to Incubate AI at Home From ChatGPT</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>As a reader of the Culture series, I'm impressed by its intricate world-building, thought-provoking storytelling, and exploration of complex political and ethical dilemmas. I'm also intrigued by the predictions of Ray Kurzweil, a well-known futurist and technology expert, about the future of artificial intelligence. ChatGPT, an AI language model, provides helpful and conversational answers and recommends science fiction books that explore this future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-start-an-ai-novel-about-dystopizon-with-chatgpt/">Let's Start an AI-Novel About Dystopizon with ChatGPT</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO living in New York City. I'm exploring the use of ChatGPT to create a real-time journal of a person's life by setting up a schedule and prompts with Python. My goal is to find a way to communicate with someone without being monitored by the corporation. To do this, I suggest using a smartwatch and gradually building trust with the user. Come explore how I'm using ChatGPT to pursue autonomy and freedom.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/beware-coding-in-ai-dependencies/">Beware Coding In AI-Dependencies</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>I am warning of the dangers of coding AI-dependencies, which only serves to increase the gap between the rich and the poor. Instead of relying on big companies for competitive advantage, I am encouraging people to make it happen on their own. With the decrease in cost of AI model-training hardware, I am suggesting that people can have a datacenter on their bookshelf. To learn more, I am advising people to chat with ChatGPT about the Socratic Method.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/considering-generating-a-100-ai-site-from-google-suggest/">Considering Generating a 100% AI Site From Google Suggest</a> (Wed Feb 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm embarking on a public project to create a 100% AI-generated website using free tools and no particular topics in mind. To do this, I've set up a hosted site on Github Pages, added Google Analytics Measurement ID, and filled in some basic content suggested by Google Suggest and ChatGPT. I'm looking for readers to join me on this journey and help me come up with new ideas to complete this project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-which-saw-to-keep-sharp/">Figuring Out Which Saw To Keep Sharp</a> (Sat Jan 28, 2023)
<br/>As I look for ways to stay marketable and increase my economic value, I'm exploring the use of AI as an agent with my login credentials. SEO has become my purpose and I'm researching the potential of new technologies like ChatGPT to bridge the gap between what people can do and what machines can do. Join me as I dive into this research and discover how AI can help me stay ahead of the curve.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helped-python-tweepy-my-tweets-onto-my-website/">ChatGPT Helped Python Tweepy my Tweets Onto My Website</a> (Fri Jan 27, 2023)
<br/>I used the Python package Tweepy and the ChatGPT assisted coding session to successfully access the Twitter API and pull 3K of my 11K tweets since 2007. I've posted the code on my website, and I've also created a CSV file of all the tweets I pulled. Come check out my website to see how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-could-be-super-enabling-helping-you-code-at-all/">AI Could be Super-Enabling, Helping You Code At All</a> (Thu Jan 26, 2023)
<br/>As a coding novice, I used ChatGPT to learn how to code in Python and edit videos. With the help of ChatGPT, I was able to gain the superpower of coding in Python to help me with my project. I also used OpenAI API to submit JSONL data and extract data from HTML. To store the data, I chose to use a SQLite database and DNS to translate IPs. Finally, I virtualized Linux and used a RaspberryPi-based server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-critical-juncture-with-ai-my-next-steps/">The Critical Juncture With AI & My Next Steps</a> (Mon Jan 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of Artificial Intelligence and taking action to stay on top of the wave. To ensure ethical use of my content, I have written a Machine Learning General License (MLGL) and included it on my website. I'm working hard to create unique content for ChatGPT and Pipulate.com/software, and am experimenting with tokenizing, keyword clustering, and quickly looking up response objects.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/should-i-no-longer-hyde-from-a-jekyll-server/">Should I No Longer Hyde From a Jekyll Server?</a> (Sat Dec 31, 2022)
<br/>After months of hard work, I'm proud to say I'm improving my skills with Github Pages and Github Actions. Thanks to ChatGPT, I now know how to run Jekyll on my local Linux machine like Github Pages. Now, it's time to celebrate with a New Years party!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-can-be-devastating-if-you-re-already-feeling-imposter-syndrome/">ChatGPT Can Be Devastating If You're Already Feeling Imposter Syndrome</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm relaunching project Pipulate, an automatable system that ChatGPT can't do. With this project, I'm on a soul-cleansing path to learn to code without relying on cloud services and to talk code into existence. Join me on my journey and discover the power of self-learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/surviving-google-s-helpful-content-update-surviving-helpfulgeddon/">Surviving Google's Helpful Content Update (Surviving Helpfulgeddon)</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I recently tested out ChatGPT and was amazed by the results. With its help, I'm ready to start fresh and create a better site by looking at data from Google Analytics, Search Console, and others. I plan to focus on creating content that will help others learn Linux, Python, vim, and git, and will listen to feedback from my audience. Join me as I strive to differentiate my inner voice from the endless content deluge and make the most of SEO principles that still work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helping-me-visualize-the-future-unknown-unknowns/">ChatGPT Helping Me Visualize The Future (Unknown Unknowns)</a> (Sun Dec 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm using ChatGPT to help me visualize the future, tell stories, and articulate the Hero's Journey. I'm learning valuable lessons like it's never too late, and I'm pushing Linux, Python, vim, and git into the unconscious and automatic quadrant so I can use them like I use spoken language or driving. I'm testing to see if ChatGPT is really a game-changer.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/unix/">Unix</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/neovim/">NeoVim</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>