<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/lemmatizing-keywords-for-site-navigation/">Lemmatizing Keywords for Site Navigation</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with lemmatization and keyword usage frequency to create consistent category pages for my website navigation. I'm ensuring the capitalization of the categories is correct and outputting them in both the website root and in `_includes`.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rethinking-a-career-in-seo/">Rethinking a Career in SEO</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO professional, I am rethinking my career in light of the new era of search engines. Google's dominance has been challenged by ChatGPT and Microsoft, and content production techniques that don't add value are now being ignored. I'm noticing that Google is favoring incumbents more than ever, and the old PageRank system is slowly being replaced by other systems. I'm exploring the implications of this shift, and the impact it will have on my career.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/used-twitter-4000-characters-for-machine-learning-general-license/">Used Twitter 4000 Characters For Machine Learning General License</a> (Wed Feb 08, 2023)
<br/>As a content creator, I recently took advantage of Twitter's new 4000 character limit by adding a Machine Learning General License to all my web content. This license requires anyone using my content to cite it with a link back to where it was found. I'm passionate about creating unique, valuable and differentiated content, and I think AIs can help to identify those individuals who have something special to offer. Read more to find out how.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-blog-titles-for-filenames/">Using Blog Titles for Filenames</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I made great progress on a blog slicing and dicing system. I managed to maintain my blogging format while also figuring out the title stuff. I now have `_counter_` posts, each with a unique filename based on the post title, as well as the title, layout, categories, and slug. Come read more to learn how I did it!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/joy/">Joy</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/question/">Questions</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>