<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/install-script-and-start-script-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Install Script and Start Script for Jupyter on LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Fri Sep 16, 2022)
<br/>I've created a script that enables Jupyter to run on LXD on WSL on Windows. I've included an install script for the desktop, a start script for when the system reboots, and some other commands to start Jupyter in the background. I'm currently testing the installation process to make sure everything works properly. Come read my blog post to learn more about this exciting development!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-average-windows-user-to-linux-terminal-user/">From Average Windows User to Linux Terminal User</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As an average Windows user, I'm taking advantage of Microsoft's partnership with Canonical to transition to Linux terminal. I'm installing Ubuntu on my existing laptop running Windows 10 or 11, so I can take advantage of the cloud and protect myself from obsolescence. Join me on my journey as I become a Linux terminal user.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-jupyter-desktop-set-python-environment-error-message/">Fixing Jupyter Desktop Set Python Environment Error Message</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I recently encountered an error message when using JupterLab-Desktop 3.3.4-2 and was able to fix it by installing the official Python 3.10.5 from Python.org and creating a venv named pyw3105. Read my blog post to find out how I did it and learn how to fix the Jupter Desktop Set Python Environment problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-jupyter-notebook-to-pip-installable-package-in-one-go/">From Jupyter Notebook to pip Installable Package In One Go</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>Join me as I livecast the process of creating and releasing a Python package from a Jupyter Notebook. I'll be using the desktop version of JupyterLab and taking you through every step of the process. Don't miss out - tune in now!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/lxc/">LXC</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/linux-terminal/">Linux Terminal</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>