<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-x-marks-the-spot/">Rappelling Down the Rabbit Hole, X-Marks The Spot</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin, SEO in NYC, shares his experience of rappelling down the rabbit hole of GPT and other AI-related technologies. He explains the power of using one text editor for life and the advantages of using open source tools like NeoVim and Emacs. He also shares his insights into the dangers of AI and encourages readers to develop empathy for these technologies.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss Microsoft's Embrace & Displace strategy and how it relates to Linux. I explore how this strategy can be used to benefit you, by embracing Linux and its timeless tools, and avoiding the pitfalls of planned obsolescence. Learn how to use vi, vim, NeoVim, the command-line, git, and ssh to stay competitive and never be displaced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/indomitable-spirit/">Indomitable Spirit</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I recently restarted WSL to get my Linux and Windows clocks in sync. I'm actively working my way back from several setbacks, including a move, my cat escaping, and changes at my job. To help me on my journey, I'm using NeoVim, updating my journaling system, rolling with the punches and navigating my next step.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/python-virtual-env-better-than-usr-local-sbin/">Python Virtual Env Better Than /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I've improved my process for editing multiple files in NeoVim with an `all` script. This script is now located in the /bin folder of my Python virtual environment, making the system more flexible and allowing me to switch between machines easily. I wrote a new script to help with this process, and I'm now able to pull from my git repos, copy the files to the correct locations, edit them in NeoVim, and push the changes back to my git repos.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-equivalent-alternative-to-usr-local-sbin/">Looking For Equivalent Alternative to /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I recently published from a Windows 11 laptop using NeoVim's new terminal macro and I'm starting to see the vimscript command: if has('nvim'). With this, I'm hoping to have a single .vimrc that works for both vim and NeoVim. I tested moving a draft post between machines and it worked, but I noticed that when I add anything to my spell-check library with the zg command, I lose syntax highlighting in NeoVim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-publishing-macro-using-terminal-expand/">NeoVim Publishing Macro Using :terminal & expand()</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to reset up my Windows 11 machine to get back to my daily workflow. This involved setting up credentials, installing NeoVim, remembering important environment settings, and re-instantiating Google and Microsoft addresses, my NAS drive, my terminal windows, and my JupyterLab icon. Additionally, I was listening to a YouTube video on how to race to the bottom of the brainstem and to the primary intimate relationship in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/more-standard-fields-more-useful-hotkeys-in-yamlesque-blogging-system/">More Standard Fields & More Useful Hotkeys in YAMLesque Blogging System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I changed the topics field to keywords in my blog posts and used a search/replace to make sure everything was up to date. To make sure my meta descriptions were accurate, I wrote a regex pattern for vim to search for lines beginning with description: and end with any character that is not sentence-ending punctuation. I created a macro to help me quickly search for and edit the AI-generated meta descriptions. Now I can easily make sure my blog posts have the best meta descriptions possible.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learnings-from-weekend-openai-keyword-extraction-clustering-project/">Learnings From Weekend OpenAI Keyword Extraction & Clustering Project</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently used the OpenAI API to gain hands-on experience with keyword extraction and clustering to create a story-like visualization in the console. I applied the 80/20 rule to solve the issue of errors with structured lists, and gained new respect for Vim/NeoVim and caution for VSCode. I'm now using NeoVim and Copilot to finish a data project, and have discovered that machines being intelligent now means that I have a virtual assistant.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/refining-my-vimrc-now-that-it-s-a-neovim-init-vim/">Refining my .vimrc now that it's a NeoVim init.vim</a> (Sun Apr 09, 2023)
<br/>I just updated my init.vim with some new plugins and options, making it compatible with both NeoVim and Vim. I'm testing out a macro that returns the entire path and name of the file, and I'm creating a new file called chopchop.py to replace the old skite repo. Come check out my blog post to learn more about my experience with NeoVim and Vim!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/better-living-through-text-editors/">Better Living Through Text Editors</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is striving to become more independent from AI and the corporate world, I'm learning to use a text editor to become more deliberate and thoughtful. I'm using OpenAI API to slice and dice my journal.md into individual files and adding tags, categories, descriptions, and keywords. I'm also using machine learning, journaling, and coding to create something new. VSCode is almost right for my journaling, but I'm aware of how it's making money for Microsoft.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/watch-me-struggle-with-mermaid-js/">Watch Me Struggle With Mermaid JS</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm live-streaming my daily journal before my 9:30 AM call. I'm using NeoVim, OpenAI auto-suggest, and Mermaid JS to work on a data project with a deadline. I'm also using CoPilot AI Pair Programming and Github CoPilot to help me out. I'm avoiding full web stack technologies and changing the background to white. Come join me on my journey as I explore noosphere and create quick diagrams with Mermaid!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-diddle-diddle-now-neovim-s-my-fiddle/">Hey Diddle Diddle, Now NeoVim's My Fiddle</a> (Sun Apr 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting up macros in my NeoVim text editor to turn my journal entries into web pages. After 10 years of using this text editor, I'm vlogging the process and exploring new habits. As an advocate for Linux, Python, vim, and git, I still have to pay a Microsoft tax for tools like Github Pro, Github CoPilot, and Microsoft 365. I'm currently formatting the output of a new dice.py file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-s-execute-command-doesn-t-even-show-output-in-neovim-of-m-s/">NeoVim's :execute Command Doesn't Even Show Output In NeoVim of ^M's</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>As a blogger, I'm debating whether to refactor my blogging system or to just use another keyboard shortcut from NeoVim. I asked Bing how to execute shell commands from NeoVim and found out that the :execute command doesn't even show output. Bing suggested using the `:terminal` command, mapping it to a keyboard shortcut, or using `vim.api.nvim_command` to execute a command. After realizing that this means my old macros look a little messed up</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/curiouser-and-curiouser-personal-journaling-w-ai/">Curiouser and Curiouser Personal Journaling w/AI</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>As a software engineer, data scientist, writer, husband, father, and friend, I am using Github Copilot, Microsoft Terminal, Carnac, and Microsoft Edge to write my personal journal. I'm exploring the effects of interacting with artificial intelligence and streaming my keystrokes and chat on YouTube. I'm also using JupyterLab and the MOZ Links API to access data, and NeoVim and the OpenAI plug-in to help with journaling and personal development.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-are-the-main-differences-between-neovim-and-vim/">What are the main differences between NeoVim and vim?</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered the advantages of using NeoVim over Vim, including its improved maintainability, plugin system, and customizability. After learning about the ability to work with Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code, I asked Bing why Github Copilot was only integrated with NeoVim. He provided resources to help me understand and I used the Getting Started with Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code guide to learn how to use the extension.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-copilot-to-help-with-daily-journaling/">Using Copilot to Help With Daily Journaling</a> (Wed Mar 29, 2023)
<br/>I recently received a video from my boss about the potential of AIs in the future and was reminded of the opportunities and dangers that come with this technology. I decided to write in my journal about the potential of technology and my plans to stay ahead of the curve. I switched from Vim to NeoVim, enabled Copilot for markdown files, and tested out the new feature. I also discussed my plans to stream the breakthrough live on YouTube and shared my thoughts on SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/marathon-live-streaming-getting-copilot-working-in-neovim/">Marathon Live Streaming Getting Copilot Working in NeoVim</a> (Tue Mar 28, 2023)
<br/>I successfully got Copilot working in NeoVim by updating the drinkme script, installing vim-plug and the Copilot plug-in from Github, and testing the authentication process. Although I'm done for the night, there are still tests and polish that need to be done. Read about my journey to get Copilot working in NeoVim on my blog.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-m-live-streaming-youtube-again-more-freely-than-before/">I'm Live streaming YouTube again More Freely Than Before</a> (Tue Mar 28, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the rapidly evolving Bard user interface issues and how they compare to Bing's implementations. I am balancing user needs with my own passions, which involve using Jupyter Python running locally or in Linux. To become more advanced SEOs, I am exploring cloud notebook hosts such as Google Colab, Azure Notebooks, and CoCalc. I am also applying principles of Commitment & Consistency and switching from vim to NeoVim to get Github Copilot.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/chatgpt/">ChatGPT</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/ubuntu/">Ubuntu</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>