<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/consulting-with-the-new-bing-on-how-to-go-viral/">Consulting With The New Bing On How to Go Viral</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides advice on how to create content that will go viral, from using visuals and interactive content to understanding the target audience. I researched six articles on the topic, covering topics such as quality content, platform optimization, and evoking high-arousal emotions. This post is a great resource for anyone looking to create content that will have an impact.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/practicing-what-i-preach/">Practicing What I Preach</a> (Sat Oct 15, 2022)
<br/>I've been busy with work and family, but I'm recommitting to writing in my journal. I'm exploring the LXD Linux Container Jupyter platform, which has been challenging but rewarding, and Microsoft's NT system, which has enabled the creation of protection rings and running concurrent operating systems. I'm amazed at how Microsoft is transitioning into the future, and I'm reflecting on the fundamentals of object-oriented and concurrency that remain.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-linux-fights-obsolescence-and-lxd-is-key/">Why Linux Fights Obsolescence and LXD is Key</a> (Sat Aug 13, 2022)
<br/>I recently released a video on LXD being a sort of Noah's Ark and am working on strategies to make my videos more successful. I'm also working on projects for my day job and creating a 24x7 scheduler for a series of projects. I need to create nicknames, imagery, and visuals for the next iteration of Pipulate, but was cut off from PyPI because of their 2FA implementation. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey to success!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/movie-night-from-mean-girls-to-heathers-and-beyond/">Movie Night: From Mean Girls to Heathers and Beyond!</a> (Tue May 31, 2022)
<br/>Last night I had Movie Night with my 11 year old kid, watching Mean Girls, ET, Back to The Future, The Godfather, and The Muppet Movie. I wanted to show my kid the contrast between myself and the characters in the movie, and the importance of true vibes and friendship, strategy and capability. I also had a great time catching up with my friend Guy, sipping wine and making fun of Kevin-what's-his-face. I understand the need to be</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-stories-leading-up-to-linux-python-vim-git/">My Stories Leading Up To Linux, Python, vim & git</a> (Fri Apr 22, 2022)
<br/>Growing up with people who meant me harm, I didn't realize it until much later. I eventually saw my Uncle Bob as a war-era pilot and a slumlord, and I decided to take control of my life. I moved to New York City with my then-spouse, only to face a costly eviction and a failed marriage. I soon realized that everything in life is strategy and war, and I had to take over my dad's check cashing business and rescue my mom from</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-home-folder-vs-linux-home-folder-under-wsl/">Windows Home Folder vs. Linux Home Folder Under WSL</a> (Wed Apr 13, 2022)
<br/>As an experienced user of tech-tools, I have established conventions for storing files in my local system and online. I use the "home" folder of the operating system as my starting point, and I'm also utilizing the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to access the Linux home folder. I'm currently considering what audience my writing should appeal to, and have identified two primary groups. Read my blog post to learn more about my strategies for organizing and using tech-tools.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/nodejs/">NodeJS</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/evolution/">Evolution</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>