<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/me-vs-chatgpt-tell-me-why-i-should-use-the-python-programming-language/">Me vs. ChatGPT: Tell me why I should use the Python programming language.</a> (Wed Dec 14, 2022)
<br/>As a programmer, I use Python because it aligns with my vibe and allows me to express myself. It is easy to learn, free and open source, and has a large and supportive community. It is also a high-level language, dynamically-typed, and versatile, with a rich set of built-in data types and standard libraries. I'm confident that Python is the perfect language for me to use and grow with.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/combine-csv-files-with-python-pandas/">Combine CSV Files with Python Pandas</a> (Thu Dec 01, 2022)
<br/>Create a new repo in DrinkMe Linux called 'combinecsvfiles' for processing CSVs. Extract information from filenames and add it to rows of the CSV using Python Pandas. Easily stack CSV dataframes in a Python list using 'pd.concat(lot)'. Discover how easy it is to combine CSVs into a single file - just use the code 'df = pd.concat(lot)'!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/connecting-the-dots-ain-t-easy/">Connecting The Dots Ain't Easy</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm trying to learn how to connect the dots and it's not easy. I'm taking a different approach: instead of drawing first, I'm learning how to look. Join me on my journey to figure out how to connect the dots and start seeing the bigger picture.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/collaboration/">Collaboration</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/strength/">Strengths</a></div></div>