<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-the-linux-nomadic-movement-with-the-new-bing/">Imagining The Linux Nomadic Movement With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a developer who values speed, productivity and ergonomics, I have been using Vim since 1976 and it has proven to be a reliable and robust tool. With a large and active community that provides support, documentation and plugins for various purposes, Vim offers advantages over VSCode, such as rapid key sequences, not requiring arrow keys, and performing complex operations with minimal keystrokes. Join me in the Linux nomadic movement.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/beware-the-re-corralling/">Beware the Re-Corralling</a> (Fri Jan 06, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the need to stay up-to-date with the latest technological advancements and the potential for AI to disrupt our lives. To prevent becoming too reliant on AI, I suggest running scripts from home to republish blogs and switching to Linux or Unix systems instead of Windows. I also provide tips on how to use modern computer technology, such as connecting to remote computers through SSH, transmitting files with git, editing files with vim, and controlling servicew with the CLI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-place-to-put-things/">A Place to Put Things</a> (Thu Dec 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking you on a journey to become a modern tech literate person. Learn the basics of PyTorch, group keywords, and build robots. Familiarize yourself with Linux, Git, and Vim. Set up a GitLab repo and gain the freedom that comes with it. Join me as I guide you through this tech literacy adventure!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-bottom-turtle-is-microsoft-and-that-s-okay/">The Bottom Turtle is Microsoft, and That's Okay</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>As a developer, I recently discovered that Windows is now the best platform for development. Microsoft has embraced Linux and its associated technologies, offering the Ubuntu repository and the Windows Subsystem for Linux, which enables developers to access Linux commands and the command-line interface. With popular commands such as cd, ls, chmod, and chown, I'm able to do a lot without being a hardcore programmer. Read my blog to find out why I believe Windows is the best development platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/programming-a-python-do-nothing-machine/">Programming a Python Do Nothing Machine</a> (Mon Sep 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm writing a program in Python to create a Do Nothing Machine. Using a command-line, I'm coding a loop that will run until a particular file is removed. The loop will print out the number of seconds it has been running, and once the file is removed, it will print "Need new IP" and create a new file to reset the counter. Follow my journey as I create this program and explore the possibilities of the Do Nothing Machine.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-the-lxd-lxc-command-line-api/">Figuring Out The LXD/LXC Command-line API</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>As a Linux user, I recently received a notice that my LXC container is unsupported. To learn the LXD/LXC command-line API, I discovered the command `lxc exec instance_name -- command` to execute commands in the LXD image, `lxc list` to view containers, `lxc start foo` to start one, and `lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu` to log.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/install/">Install</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/transition/">Transition</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>