<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/indomitable-spirit/">Indomitable Spirit</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I recently restarted WSL to get my Linux and Windows clocks in sync. I'm actively working my way back from several setbacks, including a move, my cat escaping, and changes at my job. To help me on my journey, I'm using NeoVim, updating my journaling system, rolling with the punches and navigating my next step.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-the-day-discussing-the-future-with-bard/">Planning The Day & Discussing The Future With Bard</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm spending Good Friday working on my increasingly YAML-based blogging system. I'm exploring ways to make the index page more interesting and discussing with Bard about ways it collaborates with other LLMs. I'm also considering a nomadic lifestyle and need to make sure I'm prepared to use my Linux, Python, vim, and git skills to make money on the road, as well as ways to help Mike Levin kick-off a simplification movement in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-zero-fuel-solar-nomadic-lifestyle-plus-homeschooling/">A Zero Fuel Solar Nomadic Lifestyle Plus Homeschooling</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>I'm planning the ultimate road trip for 2023 and I'm excited to explore the United States and Canada! I'm looking into a nomadic lifestyle with solar energy as my fuel source and researching solar generators, Toyota Prius Prime, Aptera, and ElectraMeccanica's SOLO. I'm also homeschooling my child and teaching them about renewable energy, sustainable living, and problem-solving. With this curriculum, I'm sure to have an unforgettable experience!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-ais-work-for-cats/">Do AIs Work For Cats?</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the fascinating world of cats, AI, and the controversial topics of politics, religion, social justice, climate change, and animal rights. Through conversations with ChatGPT-4, I investigate the complex relationship between cats and humans, the top 10 most famous fish, and the top five most mysterious fish. I also explore the natural predators of aye-ayes, platypuses, narwhals, okapis, and axolotls.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-on-your-own-in-life/">Being On Your Own In Life</a> (Sun Oct 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm in my mid-twenties and a single parent, working in the IT industry to provide for my child. I sometimes consider hitting the road in an RV, but I stay put for my family. Life is funny and I'm never really on my own. Read my story to find out more about my unique life journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-perceptual-image-hash-as-database-primary-key-for-cats/">Use Perceptual Image Hash as Database Primary Key for Cats</a> (Thu Aug 04, 2022)
<br/>I switched up my pip install scheduler to pip install huey and used Python PIL and ImageHash libraries to calculate a perceptual image hash for each cat. This hash was used as the filename and primary key for a shared SQLite3 database, which I then accessed from a Windows system in JupyterLab Desktop. Check out my blog post to see how it all worked out!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fairly-certain-i-had-a-brush-with-catknappers/">Fairly Certain I Had a Brush With Catknappers</a> (Sun Jul 03, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved and my cat Lynnie escaped during the transfer. After suspecting someone had been in my house and broken up the cat treats, I feared someone was taking advantage of the situation. I posted a plea on a community Facebook group and, sure enough, my cat returned 10 minutes later. My neighbor had warned me of bad luck for reworking a stone wall and I suspected they had taken my cat. Read this blog post to find out how I got my cat back.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/powershell/">Powershell</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/thought/">Thoughts</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>