<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-python-packaging-for-seo-deliverable/">Planning Python Packaging for SEO Deliverable</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I am starting a new project that requires the use of a traditional Python project structure, as well as AI-assistance and testing to ensure it works properly. I am conducting a study to determine the most important traffic and keywords for my business, and I am creating a deliverable-making deliverable with Python code to output Excel files, PDFs, and decks. All that tedious housekeeping work I'm delegating to AI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bring-pipulate-levinux-back-into-the-picture/">Bring Pipulate & Levinux Back Into The Picture</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm restructuring my MikeLev.in website, developing Pipulate.com, and upgrading my CMS system. I'm also aware of the need to make Levinux and Pipulate more mainstream, and to get back my PyPI account access. Join me as I work to make these changes and more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-linux-fights-obsolescence-and-lxd-is-key/">Why Linux Fights Obsolescence and LXD is Key</a> (Sat Aug 13, 2022)
<br/>I recently released a video on LXD being a sort of Noah's Ark and am working on strategies to make my videos more successful. I'm also working on projects for my day job and creating a 24x7 scheduler for a series of projects. I need to create nicknames, imagery, and visuals for the next iteration of Pipulate, but was cut off from PyPI because of their 2FA implementation. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey to success!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/having-the-confidence-to-diverge-from-nbdev-file-naming-convention/">Having The Confidence To Diverge From nbdev File Naming Convention</a> (Sun Jun 19, 2022)
<br/>I recently revamped my content release system and made changes to my .vimrc file, including replacing the blast.sh bash file with a new core.py file renamed to skite.py. Additionally, I deleted the blogslicer repo and removed it from PyPI. I'm pleased with my progress and will be writing a new article about it - come read all about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
<li><a href="/blog/concurrent-web-crawling-in-python/">Concurrent Web Crawling in Python</a> (Mon Feb 21, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm celebrating President's Day by accomplishing a mission: creating an async Python function to return zipped input/output promises. I'm also working on handling a list of tuples as input and building a package called mlseo on PyPI. To top it off, I've completed a concurrent site crawler in Python that uses SQLite. Join me in celebrating President's Day with this amazing progress!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/github copilot/">Github Copilot</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/static site generator/">Static Site Generator</a></div></div>