<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-on-adding-front-matter-support-to-journal-entries/">Planning on Adding Front Matter Support to Journal Entries</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I worked on a Content Gap Analysis project today and thought about adding Front Matter Support to my Journal Entries. I'm writing a program to parse a file, reconstruct it, and compare it to its source. I'm then transferring the logic into a python script and reversing the order of the posts in the live code to prevent bloat. I'm creating a new file - journal_ - to make this happen. Ready to take the first steps? Read my blog post to find out more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-python-packaging-for-seo-deliverable/">Planning Python Packaging for SEO Deliverable</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I am starting a new project that requires the use of a traditional Python project structure, as well as AI-assistance and testing to ensure it works properly. I am conducting a study to determine the most important traffic and keywords for my business, and I am creating a deliverable-making deliverable with Python code to output Excel files, PDFs, and decks. All that tedious housekeeping work I'm delegating to AI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-to-know-moz-through-mermaid-erds/">Getting To Know MOZ Through Mermaid ERDs</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm creating an SEO deliverable on April 4, 2023 by creating Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERDs) of the various MOZ products. To do this, I'm using MermaidJS, a markdown-based language tool. I'm exploring how to use the Mermaid syntax for ERDs, which is compatible with PlantUML, and the statement structure of `first-entity [relationship second-entity : relationship-label]`. Come</li>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-thinking-about-broader-foss-seo-features/">Start Thinking About Broader FOSS SEO Features</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to join Moz, a search engine optimization company, as an online personality. I'm looking to create "junior versions" of products that could be Moz products, or better deliverables when mashed-up with a Moz API. I'm also exploring products like AlsoAsk, which uses Google Suggest to create a visual representation of relationships. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the exciting opportunities ahead!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/action/">Actions</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/liquid/">Liquid</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>