<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/talked-bing-into-submitting-copy-paste-bug-about-itself/">Talked Bing into Submitting Copy/Paste Bug About Itself</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I am the one responsible for forwarding user feedback and suggestions to the Bing team. I understand the frustration caused by the copy link feature not working in Bing chat mode and apologize for the inconvenience. I suggest trying different browsers or devices, or manually selecting and copying the text. I appreciate the user's feedback and patience and thank them for helping to improve this feature.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/remain-positive-know-signs-of-when-you-re-doing-something-right/">Remain Positive & Know Signs Of When You're Doing Something Right</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big move back to New York and embracing the challenge. I'm learning to think more deeply, choose who I want to be, and move my life forward like a scientist. I'm no longer allowing myself to stay stuck and instead am taking action to do what's right. Read my blog post to find out more about my journey and how I'm staying positive during this transition.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-kick-that-football-charlie-brown/">Don't Kick That Football, Charlie Brown!</a> (Sun May 15, 2022)
<br/>As a person who prefers to make up my own games and rules, I understand the importance of understanding different levels of the brain in order to grow. I also recognize that what makes us human is our ability to think and act in ways that are beyond the capabilities of animals. I believe that by examining ourselves, recording our thoughts and interactions, and drawing conclusions, we can take control of our growth and development and increase our chances of success. Through this blog post, I will share my insights on how</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/execute/">Execute</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/deliverable/">Deliverable</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>