<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ever-have-to-combine-csvs-do-it-better-with-python-pandas/">Ever Have to Combine CSVs? Do It Better With Python Pandas!</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>Using the Python Pandas Library to better manipulate row and column data, I recently conducted research on a variety of websites to compare engagement rates. My findings included 15 visitors and a 1% engagement rate for Netflix.com, and 20 visitors and a 2% engagement rate for IMDB.com. Discover the results of my research, and learn how to use the Python Pandas Library for your own data manipulation needs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-pandas-and-python-s-pathlib-to-load-multiple-csv-files-for-data-analysis/">How to Use Pandas and Python's Pathlib to Load Multiple CSV Files for Data Analysis</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I released a video and tweeted the link in time for the live premiere, and I created a program called ChopChop to help me chop my journal.md file. I used the .glob() method of a pathlib Path object to get a list of all the files in a directory, which I then used to "seed" my data project. Finally, I used pandas dataframes to turn the list of file paths into something I can expand outwards from. Check out my blog.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cluster-keywords-from-google-suggest-api/">How To Cluster Keywords From Google Suggest API</a> (Sat Feb 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring all the amazing features Google Photos has to offer, from converting HEIC to JPG to downloading, editing videos, and more. To come up with SEO-friendly names for my project, I wrote code to cluster keywords into groups and created a dictionary mapping each keyword to its group. I also wrote a function to find the most common two-word combination for each group and mapped that to the group name, creating a csv file with the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helped-python-tweepy-my-tweets-onto-my-website/">ChatGPT Helped Python Tweepy my Tweets Onto My Website</a> (Fri Jan 27, 2023)
<br/>I used the Python package Tweepy and the ChatGPT assisted coding session to successfully access the Twitter API and pull 3K of my 11K tweets since 2007. I've posted the code on my website, and I've also created a CSV file of all the tweets I pulled. Come check out my website to see how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/combine-csv-files-with-python-pandas/">Combine CSV Files with Python Pandas</a> (Thu Dec 01, 2022)
<br/>Create a new repo in DrinkMe Linux called 'combinecsvfiles' for processing CSVs. Extract information from filenames and add it to rows of the CSV using Python Pandas. Easily stack CSV dataframes in a Python list using 'pd.concat(lot)'. Discover how easy it is to combine CSVs into a single file - just use the code 'df = pd.concat(lot)'!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-seo-serps-python-pandas-semrush/">A Day In The Life of An SEO SERPs, Python Pandas & SEMRush</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm embarking on a scavenger hunt to find the code I used the last time I did this project. I'm using Python to extract information from a database file, transform it into a usable format, and export it as a CSV file and an Excel xlsx file. I'm also using regex and tldextract to extract the domain from the search results. Finally, I'm using a bulk keyword analysis tool and a pivot table to organize the data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/jupyter notebooks/">Jupyter Notebooks</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/organization/">Organization</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>