<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-little-abstraction-is-nice-but-too-much-will-paralyze-you/">A Little Abstraction Is Nice But Too Much Will Paralyze You</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I explore the idea that we are mammals with an innate sense of compassion, yet have the ability to override this with cruelty. I believe the golden rule is a good code of conduct that helps us to survive, and that we were created as a solution to the creator's boredom. I discuss the limitations of our senses and the need to accept complex processes and abstractions, and how quantum effects may appear in our everyday lives.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/portable-script-to-help-edit-many-files-at-once-with-python-venv-friendly-shebang/">Portable Script to Help Edit Many Files at Once with Python venv-friendly shebang!</a> (Wed Sep 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm making my program easier to use for editing all my journals across any machine. I'm using Python venv-friendly shebang to ensure portability and adding ASCII art to keep me informed. I'm going through the process of editing, pulling, editing, and pushing the repos. Come find out how I'm doing it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-pages-aren-t-usable-on-mobile-fixing/">Why Pages Aren't Usable On Mobile, Fixing!</a> (Tue Aug 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on improving my website design and SEO rankings. To do this, I'm switching from a spinning logo experiment to a more simple design with bigger, clickable links. I'm also focusing on improving the categories of my site and tagging them correctly. I'm experimenting with SimpleCSS and Jekyll plugins to get the accent color of the navigation elements, and making sure I'm not compromising my special habits that give me a competitive edge.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/editing-files-that-are-the-same-across-multiple-sites/">Editing Files That Are The Same Across Multiple Sites</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>After a long work day, I'm taking extra time to make sure my blogging system is up-to-date. I'm creating a list of common files to edit, as well as a list of files that need to be copied for each release. I'm also setting up an 'includes' directory and adjusting the release code to make sure everything is pushed properly. Ready to get your blogging system up-to-date? Read on to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/home/">Home</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/possibility/">Possibilities</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>