<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/">Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-publishing-macro-using-terminal-expand/">NeoVim Publishing Macro Using :terminal & expand()</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to reset up my Windows 11 machine to get back to my daily workflow. This involved setting up credentials, installing NeoVim, remembering important environment settings, and re-instantiating Google and Microsoft addresses, my NAS drive, my terminal windows, and my JupyterLab icon. Additionally, I was listening to a YouTube video on how to race to the bottom of the brainstem and to the primary intimate relationship in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-crazy-old-batch-files-were-right/">The Crazy Old Batch Files Were Right</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently used browser automation to work around Google Photo API limitations and am now attempting to slurp down all the images that have been uploaded to the cloud over the years, while keeping the Apple Motion data intact. I'm teaching people how to set up a Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO server on their Windows 10 or 11 desktop, leveraging the Microsoft Subsystem for Linux and Jupyter Notebooks. I'm also exploring how Python 3 will remain the final version of Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-total-life-s-work/">Planning Total Life's Work</a> (Thu Nov 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning my life's work and using my slice & dice blogging and LXD container systems to organize my ideas and keep them published on Windows 10 & 11. Come read my blog post to learn more about my planning process!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-documenting-my-best-tricks-on-this-site/">Start Documenting My Best Tricks On This Site</a> (Fri Sep 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my laptop to document my best tricks and stories on my website, using multiple laptops and an ELTgd task to run scripts and use Python Pandas and a Jupyter Notebook. I'm also making sure to categorize everything, and I'm excited to share my knowledge with you! Come check out my website and see my best tricks and stories.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recovering-old-laptops-for-video-production-purposes/">Recovering Old Laptops For Video Production Purposes</a> (Sun Sep 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a video tutorial to show how to upgrade WSL1 and reset Windows 11 to Windows 10, using a laptop with a version lower than 18917. To ensure accuracy, I'm researching Wikipedia pages and downloading Windows Win10_1809Oct_v2_English_x64.iso. Join me on my journey as I work to make this video and worry about ruining it with a system update!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-11-is-more-like-windows-il-for-it-s-linux/">Windows 11 is more like Windows Il (for It's Linux)</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>Get ready to take the plunge into the world of Linux and Unix-based systems with Windows 11! I'm stubbornly staying on Windows 10 for now, but by enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux and the Hypervisor, I can still experience the move-to-Linux experience Microsoft has planned for us. With the help of Steve Jobs and Lennart Poettering, I can run Linux Terminal sessions under WSL2 and even upgrade my instance to Linux Containers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-average-windows-user-to-linux-terminal-user/">From Average Windows User to Linux Terminal User</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As an average Windows user, I'm taking advantage of Microsoft's partnership with Canonical to transition to Linux terminal. I'm installing Ubuntu on my existing laptop running Windows 10 or 11, so I can take advantage of the cloud and protect myself from obsolescence. Join me on my journey as I become a Linux terminal user.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-is-not-easy-to-do-real-life-or-linux/">Moving Is Not Easy To Do: Real-life or Linux</a> (Thu Jul 21, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved, and it was a lot of work to stay organized. Moving to a new place has allowed me to think things through and reorient myself, and I'm looking to establish momentum, reacquire my equilibrium, and keep creating. Unfortunately, I've found that Windows 11 doesn't let you hide taskbar icons, and even hacks to remove the clock don't work. Read my blog post to find out how I'm dealing with the transition.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-lxd-running-under-wsl2-on-windows-11-with-ubuntu-18-04/">Get LXD Running Under WSL2 on Windows 11 with Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>Learn how I got LXD running on Windows 11 with Ubuntu 18.04. I'll show you how to download the install.sh file, enable systemd, and test if it's running. Plus, I'll share how to fix failed attempts and start fresh. Get all the steps you need to get LXD up and running today.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linux-lesson-2-run-run-it-from-cli/">Learning Linux Lesson #2: RUN! Run it from CLI!</a> (Tue Jun 07, 2022)
<br/>As someone who knows that Linux is the future, I'm here to tell you that learning it doesn't have to be intimidating. With the help of commands like ls, cd, and pwd, you can easily navigate the command-line interface. And with Windows 11, it's easier than ever to install Linux. So take my advice and join the future of computing!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/friday-the-13th-2022-kb5013624-cumulative-update-for-net/">Friday The 13th 2022 KB5013624 Cumulative Update for .NET</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>Having trouble with my internet connection, I realize it was the KB5013624 update for .NET. After researching, I find it's a phishing vulnerability patch, but can't find more information. I decide to let it install, fearing it might be the Windows 11 update I'm not ready for. Relieved to find out it's not, I make a mental note to upgrade to Windows.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adventures-installing-manim-on-windows-11-not-under-wsl-linux/">Adventures Installing Manim on Windows 11 (Not Under WSL Linux)</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>I recently switched from Mac to Microsoft and discovered the power of the vim command :b1. This blog post explores the importance of developing internal resilience and extracting the lessons from life experiences. I discuss the differences between the neocortex and the pituitary gland and how the neocortex can override the signals of the pituitary gland. I also share my experience of trying to get Manim to work on my Windows 11 system, and how I ultimately got it to work on Windows 10. I</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/google/">Google</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/mac/">Mac</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>