<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/designing-yamlesque-post-generator-api/">Designing YAMLesque Post Generator API</a> (Sat Apr 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm amazed by how things just work. I'm using 80-hyphens as a parser token to make my front-matter handling more slicey and yaml-like. I've written a powerful function called chop_chop that takes a file path and returns a tuple with 3 positions. Occasionally I'll do one-off's in Jupyter Notebooks. I'm excited to see the results of my work and hope you will be too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-on-adding-front-matter-support-to-journal-entries/">Planning on Adding Front Matter Support to Journal Entries</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I worked on a Content Gap Analysis project today and thought about adding Front Matter Support to my Journal Entries. I'm writing a program to parse a file, reconstruct it, and compare it to its source. I'm then transferring the logic into a python script and reversing the order of the posts in the live code to prevent bloat. I'm creating a new file - journal_ - to make this happen. Ready to take the first steps? Read my blog post to find out more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automatically-log-into-moz-pro-with-playwright-browser-automation/">Automatically Log Into MOZ Pro with Playwright Browser Automation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post will walk you through using Microsoft Playwright's browser automation software to automatically log into MOZ Pro and download Keyword Explorer data for each subdomain. Using asynchronous mode and my standard Chrome automation template, I am logging into the MOZ Pro website and using the Keyword Explorer feature to pull keywords from a given site with the help of the async Python library. Read on to learn how to automate this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/notebook-based-browser-automation-with-nbdev/">Notebook-based Browser Automation With NBDev</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a journal to document my journey of improving my life with NBDev. NBDev makes writing code easier and more organized, and it's a great improvement over VSCode's Jupyter Notebook extension. I had some trouble shooting a video with OBS, but the nbdev_export worked well. Follow my journey as I document my successes and learn from my mistakes!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/continuing-my-silent-live-streaming-journaling-adventure/">Continuing My Silent Live-Streaming Journaling Adventure</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm live-streaming my journey of journaling and making the argument for keeping a single text file for life. I'm also creating a Github repo with code examples, watching cartoons with my kid, and making them food. I've written sample code and converted them into Python dict objects, and I now have a Jupyter Notebook to share with the community. Join me on my journey and explore the possibilities of journaling and coding!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-chatgpt-s-help-transitioning-from-seo-to-data-engineer/">Getting ChatGPT's Help Transitioning From SEO To Data Engineer</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm a Webmaster transitioning to a Data Engineer, and I'm promoting an approach that combines JupyterLab, Linux terminal environment, and Git to help others make the same transition. I'm highlighting the benefits of learning these technologies, as well as the hands-on approach and practical learning opportunities provided by the Jupyter Notebook tutorials. With this project, I'm looking to help people become more in-demand, versatile, and resilient in the technology industry.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/expanding-my-google-suggest-jupyter-notebook-to-include-stop-words/">Expanding My Google Suggest Jupyter Notebook to Include Stop Words</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I recently moved my Google Photos project to a server running LXD Linux and am refining my Google Suggest probing to include stop words. I'm also exploring the idea of switching my project to Jupyter Notebook based locally. I'm using the same technique on my OhAwf repo and it's proving to be successful. Read more to find out how I'm making this transition and the success I'm having with it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/life-in-weeks-ipynb/">life_in_weeks.ipynb</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm creating a Jupyter Notebook called 'life_in_weeks.ipynb' that uses a namedtuple-per-week approach to explore my life through photos. Using the Google Photos API, I'm filtering images from Jan 02, 2023 and beyond. Come explore my life with me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-3-different-data-automation-projects/">Powering My Way Through 3 Different Data Automation Projects</a> (Thu Nov 03, 2022)
<br/>Today, I powered my way through three data automation projects, using tricks to make the work more enjoyable and browser automation to avoid extra steps. I sliced a Jupyter Notebook, loaded data, and used a modulo technique to chop a long keyword list into batches of 100. Despite feeling mentally fatigued, I finished the day with a sense of satisfaction. Read more to learn how I overcame hurdles and proved the viability of the project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-documenting-my-best-tricks-on-this-site/">Start Documenting My Best Tricks On This Site</a> (Fri Sep 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my laptop to document my best tricks and stories on my website, using multiple laptops and an ELTgd task to run scripts and use Python Pandas and a Jupyter Notebook. I'm also making sure to categorize everything, and I'm excited to share my knowledge with you! Come check out my website and see my best tricks and stories.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fight-the-chaos-of-windows-10-use-virtual-desktops-linux/">Fight the Chaos of Windows 10 : Use Virtual Desktops & Linux</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm rebooting my "Make Windows 10" series with a focus on fighting chaos. To stay organized, I'm recommending Virtual Desktops, WSL, and removing tiles, clock, and Taskbar icons. For Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab users, I'm suggesting running the server Linux-side under GNU. Join me in my journey to a more organized Windows 10 experience!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-perceptual-image-hash-as-database-primary-key-for-cats/">Use Perceptual Image Hash as Database Primary Key for Cats</a> (Thu Aug 04, 2022)
<br/>I switched up my pip install scheduler to pip install huey and used Python PIL and ImageHash libraries to calculate a perceptual image hash for each cat. This hash was used as the filename and primary key for a shared SQLite3 database, which I then accessed from a Windows system in JupyterLab Desktop. Check out my blog post to see how it all worked out!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/activating-all-my-registered-domains/">Activating All My Registered Domains</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I have taken the initiative to activate all of my registered domains, creating scripts to help me organize them. I have created a sites.txt file, an edit.sh file, and have gone to Google Analytics to get new GA-4 codes. I have also moved content from one website to another, and made mikelevinseo.com its own site. Read this blog post to learn how I organized my domains and content!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-command-line-argument-support-to-jupyter-notebook/">Adding Command-Line Argument Support to Jupyter Notebook</a> (Thu Apr 28, 2022)
<br/>I have added command-line argument support to my Jupyter Notebook using the Python standard library argparse. I have coded up a .py file and tested it successfully, and am now transplanting it into blogslicer, creating functions for displaying headings, and using dateutil and slugify modules. I wrote a script to slice and dice my blog posts into the correct format for Jekyll and incorporated it into my regular publishing release script. I made a change to my world</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/vscode/">VSCode</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/javascript/">JavaScript</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>