<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-error-invalidrequesterror-this-model-s-maximum-context-length-is-4097-tokens/">openai.error.InvalidRequestError: This model's maximum context length is 4097 tokens</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Learn how I used the OpenAI Codex API to optimize my articles for website navigation. I found `pip instal tiktoken` and code snippets to count tokens and chop back my input with rsplit to fit the maximum context length of 4097 tokens.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tackling-moz-browser-automation-until-i-get-it-right/">Tackling MOZ Browser Automation Until I Get It Right</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm tackling browser automation with the MOZ Links API and Chrome, and have set up a Playwright context on a Linux server. I'm writing code to automate tasks for MOZ Pro, and running the code from the command line with "python mozpro.py -k" to analyze keywords and download the results. Join me on my journey as I explore the possibilities of automated browser tasks with MOZ Pro!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moz-links-api-an-introduction/">MOZ Links API, An Introduction</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>As a Python programmer, I'm here to tell you about APIs and how to use them. I'll explain the MOZ Links API, GET and POST methods, JSON format, and Python dictionaries. Plus, I'll show you how to make a request using the requests library, and how to use the 'json.dumps' and 'json.loads' functions to convert a Python object into a JSON string. Read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/curiouser-and-curiouser-personal-journaling-w-ai/">Curiouser and Curiouser Personal Journaling w/AI</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>As a software engineer, data scientist, writer, husband, father, and friend, I am using Github Copilot, Microsoft Terminal, Carnac, and Microsoft Edge to write my personal journal. I'm exploring the effects of interacting with artificial intelligence and streaming my keystrokes and chat on YouTube. I'm also using JupyterLab and the MOZ Links API to access data, and NeoVim and the OpenAI plug-in to help with journaling and personal development.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/connecting-to-the-moz-links-api-v1-for-the-first-time/">Connecting to the Moz Links API V1 For the First Time</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying out a new writing and video-recording habit and connecting to the Moz Links API V1 for the first time. I'm using Github Copilot, Carnac settings, and the Python requests library. I attempted my first request but got a 401. After further investigation, I was successful in making the request, though the documentation could have been clearer. Join me as I document the process of setting up a streaming channel with the Moz Links API.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/science/">Science</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/bash/">Bash</a></div></div>