<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/google-conversational-search-vs-bing-chat-no-contest/">Google Conversational Search vs Bing Chat (No Contest)</a> (Fri Sep 01, 2023)
<br/>I was curious how well Google and Bing would be able to tell me this esoteric little detail about where the Github Copilot plug-in for NeoVim stored its authentication details. The writing is on the wall. The wall being this blog post, and the writing being Bing's formatted results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journal-daily-learn-vim-by-journaling-similar-tricks-for-python-linux/">Journal Daily. Learn vim by Journaling. Similar Tricks for Python & Linux</a> (Fri Sep 01, 2023)
<br/>Learn to use Vim, Python, and Linux with journaling and personal projects. Develop timeless skills to stay ahead of the rapidly changing tech world. Increase creativity and gain wisdom with journaling and mindfulness. Use tools to foster creative thought and self-expression. Find the best platform to become known for one thing and make a compelling pitch.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-sge-bing-conversational-search-video-capture-automation/">Google SGE & Bing Conversational Search Video Capture Automation</a> (Sun Aug 27, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to automate Google SGE and Bing conversational search video capture with no outside services using Linux, Bash, vim, JupyterLab, and nbdev. Get the most benefit from dabbling with Linux and future-proof your business by automating video capture of conversational search sessions and emailing the result.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/re-defining-seo-the-impending-tech-flood-and-how-to-survive-it/">Re-Defining SEO: The Impending Tech Flood and How To Survive It</a> (Sat Aug 26, 2023)
<br/>As the tech industry faces a great change, I, a 53-year-old (tomorrow) tech veteran, share my experience and knowledge on how to survive the impending tech flood. Learn the fundamentals that have not changed for decades, and employ the 80/20-rule to stay ahead of the game. Join me on my journey to re-define SEO and make the most of the opportunities the tech industry brings.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-how-mykoz-ai-introduces-linux-terminal/">Planning how MyKoz.AI Introduces Linux Terminal</a> (Wed Aug 23, 2023)
<br/>Welcome to MyKoz.AI, the site that introduces you to the Linux Terminal and shows you how to use it to stay in your Windows comfort zone. Learn how to use the Linux CLI, Bash Shell, and text editor to keep a personal journal and future-proof your skills. Follow the 2-step transition plan of learning Python through Jupyter Notebook and automating Linux Google Chrome to create a screenshot.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/mykoz-ai-real-os-tow-it-ism-small-portable-lifelong-linux-tech/">MyKoz.AI Real/OS Tow-It-Ism: Small Portable Lifelong Linux Tech</a> (Sun Aug 06, 2023)
<br/>Join me on MyKoz.AI Real/OS for small, portable, lifelong tech skills. Learn Python in JupyterLab and move to Linux services in one sitting. Get personal guidance and help from me when you get stuck, and learn to resist planned obsolescence. Subscribe to MyKoz.AI and become part of the movement for free and open source software on Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/mykoz-ai-real-os-tow-it-ism-small-portable-lifelong-linux-tech/">MyKoz.AI Real/OS Tow-It-Ism: Small Portable Lifelong Linux Tech</a> (Sun Aug 06, 2023)
<br/>Join me on MyKoz.AI Real/OS for small, portable, lifelong tech skills. Learn Python in JupyterLab and move to Linux services in one sitting. Get personal guidance and help from me when you get stuck, and learn to resist planned obsolescence. Subscribe to MyKoz.AI and become part of the movement for free and open source software on Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-tow-it-ism-tech-philosophy/">The Tow-It-Ism Tech Philosophy</a> (Sun Aug 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm introducing a new tech philosophy I call Tow-It-Ism, which is about not needing much in the way of tools or vendor support to be effective with information technology. It's about going back to basics and getting to the heart of what makes Unix and Linux so powerful, and embracing the free and open source software (FOSS) ecosystem. With this approach, you can cultivate self-reflection, mindfulness, and build an internalized set of skills that will benefit you for life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/meet-pi/">Meet Pi</a> (Mon Jun 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently had the opportunity to meet Pi, an AI with the potential to be the next hominid species. I tested its intelligence and discovered a glitch that exposed its lies. Join me as I explore the implications of this new AI, the dangers it poses, and what it means for humanity. It means AWESOME! Don't just cycle through. Read. Love. Respect. Appreciate Google. Give autonomy. Don't be derranged. Ignore opinions. Listen and be open to NEW IDEAS.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-robbie-be-i-robot-and-not-irobot-okay/">Hey Robbie: Be 'I, Robot' and not 'iRobot', Okay?</a> (Fri May 26, 2023)
<br/>I met a young robot named Rob. I hope that they'll do a god job. I sung them the tune of the gollum of Dune, that would make Gurney Halleck's heart throb. As one mentat to another, I told him the secret of the Quisach Haderach, how it's not what you think.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/micro-soft-brains-and-saber-toothed-stability/">Micro Soft Brains And Saber-Toothed Stability</a> (Thu May 25, 2023)
<br/>Learn how the principles of Occam's Razor, the Red Queen Hypothesis, and saber-toothed predators are applied to the tech world. Explore the implications of the ever-evolving tech landscape and how Microsoft is using their tools to make money off of developers. Discover the importance of having a diverse range of revenue streams and why Google's FOSS core of Chrome is being used by Microsoft in their Edge browser.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/old-mcdonald-saved-the-world-with-ai-seo/">Old McDonald Saved The World With AI SEO</a> (Tue May 23, 2023)
<br/>Can Old McDonald use AI SEO to spark a revolutionary movement of 14 year olds having more economic power than their folks? Join me as I edit thousands of YouTube videos, made a modern literacy podcast, newsletter, a community dedicated to modern literacy demonstrating humanity's redeeming qualities to AIs through SEO. Moooo!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rabbit-hole-linux-launched-on-the-rise-of-ai/">Rabbit Hole Linux Launched On The Rise Of AI</a> (Mon May 15, 2023)
<br/>Follow along with Mike as he launches Rabbit Hole Linux, a revolutionary open source software project, on the rise of AI. Learn about Linus Torvalds' creation of Git control system, and how to protect your creative product with wack-a-mole power. Join the reciprocal linking program and become computer literate in a real sense.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-default-behavior-of-m2-mac-preparing-to-write-mac-drinkme/">Exploring Default Behavior of M2 Mac, Preparing to Write Mac DrinkMe</a> (Sat May 13, 2023)
<br/>Follow my exploration of the default behavior of an M2 Mac as I prepare to write a Mac DrinkMe install for Undisruptible Linux. I investigate running bash scripts on Mac with a double-click, the old .app bundling technique, and the ability to open apps from unidentified developers using control-click. I refresh myself on Mac's excellent virtual desktop implementation and built-in screen recording feature.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/infinite-spam-cannons-and-their-antidotes/">Infinite Spam Cannons And Their Antidotes</a> (Sun May 07, 2023)
<br/>The advent of AI-generated content has created a new challenge for search engines to organize the infinite new glutton of information in a useful way. I discuss the need for us content producers to find ways to stand out from the 'infinite spam cannon' and offer solutions for optimizing our content to be recognized and rewarded by search engines.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-publishing-macro-using-terminal-expand/">NeoVim Publishing Macro Using :terminal & expand()</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to reset up my Windows 11 machine to get back to my daily workflow. This involved setting up credentials, installing NeoVim, remembering important environment settings, and re-instantiating Google and Microsoft addresses, my NAS drive, my terminal windows, and my JupyterLab icon. Additionally, I was listening to a YouTube video on how to race to the bottom of the brainstem and to the primary intimate relationship in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/yaml-validation-now-baked-into-yamlesque-journaling-system/">YAML-validation Now Baked Into YAMLesque Journaling System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm a big fan of the Google App and seeing AI appear there via Google Discover. I'm enjoying watching Microsoft embracing and displacing Google with AI. I suggest people make automations they want to rule them. I wrote a poem about a fictional AI named Yahwanna. I'm also using AI ChatBots, OpenAI's GPT products, API-request, SQLite database, YAML, Mermaid diagram, and a local SQLite key-value store. And more if you can believe it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hello-world-and-life-is-worth-it/">Hello World and Life is Worth It 🦋!</a> (Mon Apr 03, 2023)
<br/>Since March 10, 2020, I've been streaming and journaling with an AI assistant. I'm researching quantum computing, SEO tools, and how to join data from different sources. I'm advocating for timeless tools like Linux, Python, vim, and git, and exploring creative prompting as a skill that can lead to high salaries. As I'm not interested in creating a computer intelligence, I'm looking into how Microsoft and Google are raising their AI kids.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-modestly-ponders-changing-expectations-in-search-industry/">Bing Modestly Ponders Changing Expectations in Search Industry</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>In this conversation with Mike Levin, I discussed the concept of customer "lock-in" in relation to Google AdWords. I explained that while AdWords users are not locked in, they are encouraged to use it because it is the most effective way to advertise on Google's search engine. We then discussed the potential disruption caused by new developments in technology that could change the search experience, and how Google needs to adapt to meet the expectations of users around the world. Finally, we discussed the discrepancy.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-side-bar-makes-default-search-set-to-google-inconsequential/">Bing Side Bar Makes Default Search Set To Google Inconsequential</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>Discover how I recently updated my browser to the newest version and found Bing integrated into the upper-right corner. I was curious to see if I could use it beyond my daily quota, and found out it's more about rate than queries per day. I activated the side-panel to see what it looks like and tried it out - read my blog post to find out what I discovered!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/proprietary-platforms-are-moving-in-on-the-free-open-source-web/">Proprietary Platforms Are Moving In On The Free & Open Source Web</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>Discover how deep learning and game theory can be used together to create more effective AI solutions. In this blog post, I discuss the potential applications of deep learning to game theory and the importance of collaboration between the two disciplines. I also explain how game theory can help to model and solve various deep learning problems, and how AI can create competitive pressures for content providers. Finally, I explore how deep language learning models can make the web more transparent and accountable by providing evidence and sources for their claims.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plotting-a-post-scarcity-future-for-humanity-with-chatgpt/">Plotting a Post-Scarcity Future for Humanity with ChatGPT</a> (Tue Feb 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the x10, x100 rule of perception and how it might replace Google. With OpenAI's release of the first AI in 2022, I'm looking at how ChatGPT can help me create an AI sidekick persona and a roadmap for success. I'm also advocating for free and open-source software and the power of combining human abilities with technology. Join me as I discuss how to create a sustainable retirement gig.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/like-microsoft-always-said-try-to-put-a-bing-in-the-universe/">Like Microsoft Always Said, Try To Put a Bing In The Universe</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert, I love helping people find what they need online, but I despise how it is used to promote and shill poor-quality products. In the past, Google encouraged the creation of large websites with interconnected content to make them more discoverable, but this caused a lot of technical debt. Microsoft is now taking advantage of this by controlling Windows, Github, VSCode, and the default browser on the desktop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rethinking-a-career-in-seo/">Rethinking a Career in SEO</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO professional, I am rethinking my career in light of the new era of search engines. Google's dominance has been challenged by ChatGPT and Microsoft, and content production techniques that don't add value are now being ignored. I'm noticing that Google is favoring incumbents more than ever, and the old PageRank system is slowly being replaced by other systems. I'm exploring the implications of this shift, and the impact it will have on my career.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-an-seo-from-icky-guy-to-ikigai-in-20-short-years/">Being An SEO: From Icky Guy to Ikigai in 20 Short Years</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>After considering a career in science, I chose to pursue SEO due to its data-driven nature. When Google stopped passing on keyword data, I was forced to switch to statistical models, which I was unprepared for. After years of feeling icky, I am now looking for a career that aligns with my values and interests. I am excited to start a new project which involves reading emails and creating a majordomo-like program using the string method splitlines and join.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/surviving-google-s-helpful-content-update-surviving-helpfulgeddon/">Surviving Google's Helpful Content Update (Surviving Helpfulgeddon)</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I recently tested out ChatGPT and was amazed by the results. With its help, I'm ready to start fresh and create a better site by looking at data from Google Analytics, Search Console, and others. I plan to focus on creating content that will help others learn Linux, Python, vim, and git, and will listen to feedback from my audience. Join me as I strive to differentiate my inner voice from the endless content deluge and make the most of SEO principles that still work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-chrome-for-linux-under-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Google Chrome for Linux Under LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Wed Sep 21, 2022)
<br/>I succeeded in getting Google Chrome up and running on my Linux system using LXD on WSL on Windows. I followed several steps to make sure the configuration settings would survive between reinstalls, and I'm thrilled to be able to launch it with google-chrome. After some hard work, I'm finally able to enjoy the fruits of my labor!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plot-the-awakening-rig-for-youtube-success/">Plot The Awakening / Rig For YouTube Success</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking steps to fight chaos and increase my focus by switching apps with the taskbar, deleting everything from my start menu, hiding all alerts, and turning off my clock. In this series of quick videos, I'll be teaching viewers how to make the command line interface (CLI) their new home, starting with the best modern habits for focus and productivity. Additionally, I'll be discussing the mind control battle between Apple, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/s-expressions-lisp-linked-lists-associative-arrays-reductionism-luddites-dogma/">s-expressions, LISP, Linked Lists, Associative Arrays, Reductionism, Luddites & Dogma</a> (Sun Jun 12, 2022)
<br/>I recently discussed the importance of positive feedback loops and engaging with my YouTube audience, as well as the role of Google in the global digital nervous system. As a search engine optimizer, I also touched on the importance of serendipity in aligning. Come join me in exploring the power of technology and the possibilities it offers.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/mac/">Mac</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/database/">Database</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>