<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-x-marks-the-spot/">Rappelling Down the Rabbit Hole, X-Marks The Spot</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin, SEO in NYC, shares his experience of rappelling down the rabbit hole of GPT and other AI-related technologies. He explains the power of using one text editor for life and the advantages of using open source tools like NeoVim and Emacs. He also shares his insights into the dangers of AI and encourages readers to develop empathy for these technologies.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-vi-vim-both-the-official-standard-unix-linux-text-editor/">Are vi & vim Both The Official Standard Unix / Linux Text Editor?</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>I asked Bing about the evolution of text editors, and they provided a timeline beginning with the 1967 development of QED and ending with Emacs and Vim's 2023 dominance. I then asked if vi was first released in 1976, and Bing confirmed. They also provided a list of 20 text editors based on vi, as well as a description of vi's influence. Bing discussed the POSIX standard and other Unix/Linux standards, and offered to answer any questions I had about them.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/livestreaming-question-answers-with-youtube-audience/">Livestreaming Question & Answers With YouTube Audience</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have been made obsolete by so many things, but I'm using the tools Microsoft is providing to stay relevant. In this video, I discuss how knowledge workers bring their minds and capabilities to their job, and how I use my own CMS called Skite to take notes and organize my work. I also share tips on avoiding vendor traps and obsolescence resistance, such as using Python dict API, Sqlite3, Django and Flask, and the Unix Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/of-green-arrows-and-red-armor/">Of Green Arrows and Red Armor</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>As a web publisher optimizing content for search engines, I chose Vim for its utility over Emacs and am competing with the younguns using proprietary IDEs. I'm editing 15 homepages at once with Jekyll, and wondering why everyone doesn't do the same. I'm a lawyer, so I'm always prepared for a fight. Join me in my journey as I explore the potential pitfalls of using a macro system and discover why Jekyll is the best choice for editing multiple homepages.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/">Teaching My Wife vim</a> (Sun Apr 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm teaching my wife vim, which I use to copy and paste text files and back up code to Github. I've been using vim for decades, and I'm excited to help my wife learn this timeless technology. I overcame my own negative experience with vim to understand its importance, and I'm enjoying the meaningful experience of helping my wife learn it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/text-editors/">Text Editors</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/competitor/">Competitors</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>