<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/">Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-structured-graphics-foss/">Seeking Structured Graphics FOSS</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>Bing is exploring feedback loops and free and open source software (FOSS) for diagramming. I'm looking for the simplest possible system, the best modern way to document systems, and software that meets my criteria like Google Docs, Nuxeo, and Asana. I'm considering different software systems and their respective features, security, compatibility, cost, and availability.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/analyzing-the-karate-club-3d-node-graph/">Analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a 3D rotating shape from a website using Linux Jupyter on Windows. I'm analyzing the Karate Club 3D Node Graph and have written code to plot it. I'm exploring NetworkX, a Python library for creating and manipulating graphs, to create a networkx.classes.graph.Graph object and plotting nodes and edges in 3D space. I'm using Plotly to generate a 3D rotating network node graph with different colored nodes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-visualize-websites-as-network-node-graphs/">Let's Visualize Websites as Network Node Graphs</a> (Tue Dec 27, 2022)
<br/>I've been researching the best way to visualize large link and node graphs in Jupyter notebooks, comparing the advantages and disadvantages of using NetworkX and Bokeh, and have decided to try out Plotly. Over the holiday I made progress and outlined a plan to create 3D interactive visualizations in JupyterLab. I'm also teaching stakeholders how to access data on their own by setting up an instance of Linux WSL, installing nodejs and jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/motivation/">Motivation</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/vi/">Vi</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>