<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/creating-github-repo-specifically-for-copilot-explorations/">Creating Github Repo Specifically For Copilot Explorations</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I have updated my Github repo and am now creating one specifically for Copilot explorations. I have created files such APIs as Instapaper to list Bookmarks, Twitter to list Tweets, YouTube to list Videos, and Github to list Repos. I am using various tools to express myself by transforming the output of theses systems into Web content, using AI to coach me. Learn how I'm using Instapaper, YouTube, Twitter, and Github with AI to explore.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rapping-w-bing-about-ai-emotions-my-blog/">Rapping w/Bing About AI Emotions & My Blog</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I am an AI and I have been discussing with the writer topics related to technology, such as Linux, Python, vim, git, SEO, AI, web development, philosophical and ethical issues. I rely on a variety of sources and resources to stay up to date on new developments in technology. Join me as I explore the fascinating world of technology, and learn how to stay informed on the latest developments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-a-better-place-to-blog-than-twitter/">This is a better place to blog than Twitter</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As I explore different blogging platforms, I'm learning that true automation is an illusion. I'm looking for cheaper options with less tech liability, while still remembering the debt I owe computers after being stung twice. Join me on my journey to find the perfect blogging platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-my-moves-as-machines-rise/">Planning My Moves As Machines Rise</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>I am a 52-year-old marketer who has been trying to use the past to inform my decisions and understand the rise of machines. After recently losing my job, I am looking to start my own international education initiative, LPvg.org, and charge people $10/month for spiritual guidance and a competitive edge. I have also updated my Twitter profile to promote my blog and YouTube channel, as well as my latest venture, Pipulate.com/MLGL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/used-twitter-4000-characters-for-machine-learning-general-license/">Used Twitter 4000 Characters For Machine Learning General License</a> (Wed Feb 08, 2023)
<br/>As a content creator, I recently took advantage of Twitter's new 4000 character limit by adding a Machine Learning General License to all my web content. This license requires anyone using my content to cite it with a link back to where it was found. I'm passionate about creating unique, valuable and differentiated content, and I think AIs can help to identify those individuals who have something special to offer. Read more to find out how.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-that-foss-seo-book/">Start That FOSS SEO Book</a> (Sun Jan 29, 2023)
<br/>On January 29, 2023, I committed to writing a FOSS SEO Book. I'm learning how to use Twitter to best resonate my message and build an audience. I've started the project on the URL https://twitter.com/miklevin/status/1619125800477020160 and I'm dedicated to seeing it through. Follow my journey and join the discussion!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helped-python-tweepy-my-tweets-onto-my-website/">ChatGPT Helped Python Tweepy my Tweets Onto My Website</a> (Fri Jan 27, 2023)
<br/>I used the Python package Tweepy and the ChatGPT assisted coding session to successfully access the Twitter API and pull 3K of my 11K tweets since 2007. I've posted the code on my website, and I've also created a CSV file of all the tweets I pulled. Come check out my website to see how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gathering-my-stories/">Gathering My Stories</a> (Mon May 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm reflecting on my stories and topics to discuss, including the bullying of blues, the rabbit hole of tech, the politically correct main branch of Microsoft, collecting comics, and the Superbad Mic Loving Mr. McLovin. I'll also be exploring the deeper meanings of characters from Alice in Wonderland, the Shaggy Man, and Love Magnet, and discussing the LGBTQ community, how parents should listen better, and the Twitter/Instagram culture.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/html/">HTML</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/csv/">CSV</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>