<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-ai-s-opinion-of-hottest-tech-fields/">Exploring AI's Opinion of Hottest Tech Fields</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I asked ChatGPTL what the top five tech specialties following Linux were that would give me the most value to employers. ChatGPTL responded with a list of five highly sought-after and well-paying skills: IT Automation, AI & Machine Learning, Quantum Computing, Connected Technologies, and Fintech. Read my blog post to learn more about these skills and how to determine which ones are right for you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/like-microsoft-always-said-try-to-put-a-bing-in-the-universe/">Like Microsoft Always Said, Try To Put a Bing In The Universe</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert, I love helping people find what they need online, but I despise how it is used to promote and shill poor-quality products. In the past, Google encouraged the creation of large websites with interconnected content to make them more discoverable, but this caused a lot of technical debt. Microsoft is now taking advantage of this by controlling Windows, Github, VSCode, and the default browser on the desktop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/being-an-seo-from-icky-guy-to-ikigai-in-20-short-years/">Being An SEO: From Icky Guy to Ikigai in 20 Short Years</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>After considering a career in science, I chose to pursue SEO due to its data-driven nature. When Google stopped passing on keyword data, I was forced to switch to statistical models, which I was unprepared for. After years of feeling icky, I am now looking for a career that aligns with my values and interests. I am excited to start a new project which involves reading emails and creating a majordomo-like program using the string method splitlines and join.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-walrus-the-carpenter-who-had-trouble-getting-to-solla-sollew/">The Walrus & The Carpenter Who Had Trouble Getting to Solla Sollew</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>I have learned from my own mistakes, like the ones in Dr. Seuss' I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew. People have tried to take advantage of me, like the Walrus in the story, but I have come out stronger and wiser because of it. Read my story to find out how I overcame these obstacles and gained strength from them.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/storytime-with-mic-lovin-the-wizard-of-oz-s-redemption-story-arc/">Storytime with Mic Lovin' - The Wizard of Oz's Redemption Story Arc</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mic Lovin' and I'm here to share the redemption arc of The Wizard of Oz from L. Frank Baum's fourteen-book series. Join me as I explore how Dorothy and Ozma's coming of age adventures shape them into dynamic personalities, while The Wizard learns real magic from Glinda the Good Witch of The North. Follow my journey as I create my own story arc and learn from the Good Linux of the GNUrth.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/windows subsystem/">Windows Subsystem</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/easy/">Easy</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>