<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/nbdev-packaging-is-the-first-step-in-every-project/">Nbdev Packaging Is The First Step In Every Project</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I'm emphasizing the importance of making early decisions about the packaging of a Python project, such as using the traditional file-arrangement and thinking about the package as a whole. To do this, I'm using Jupyter Notebooks, the nbdev_new command, the nbdev_export command, and the black code formatter. I'm also introducing the idea of using pip install -e to install the package in "editable" mode. Come join me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-python-packaging-for-seo-deliverable/">Planning Python Packaging for SEO Deliverable</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I am starting a new project that requires the use of a traditional Python project structure, as well as AI-assistance and testing to ensure it works properly. I am conducting a study to determine the most important traffic and keywords for my business, and I am creating a deliverable-making deliverable with Python code to output Excel files, PDFs, and decks. All that tedious housekeeping work I'm delegating to AI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recruiting-chatgpt-s-help-advocating-lpvg-toolset/">Recruiting ChatGPT's Help Advocating LPvg Toolset</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin and I'm looking for web-based APIs to help manage Linux system daemons through a Web UI. I'm open to using Flask or running it through Jupyter Notebooks in JupyterLab, hosted on the same Linux machine. I'm forking the .service file and running it as a GNU screen session to get the console-monitoring advantage. I use Linux virtual machines as a universal layer for interoperability and portability to make this skill timeless.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-are-the-main-differences-between-neovim-and-vim/">What are the main differences between NeoVim and vim?</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered the advantages of using NeoVim over Vim, including its improved maintainability, plugin system, and customizability. After learning about the ability to work with Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code, I asked Bing why Github Copilot was only integrated with NeoVim. He provided resources to help me understand and I used the Getting Started with Jupyter Notebooks in Visual Studio Code guide to learn how to use the extension.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-crazy-old-batch-files-were-right/">The Crazy Old Batch Files Were Right</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently used browser automation to work around Google Photo API limitations and am now attempting to slurp down all the images that have been uploaded to the cloud over the years, while keeping the Apple Motion data intact. I'm teaching people how to set up a Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO server on their Windows 10 or 11 desktop, leveraging the Microsoft Subsystem for Linux and Jupyter Notebooks. I'm also exploring how Python 3 will remain the final version of Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/thinking-through-python-google-photos-sorter/">Thinking Through Python Google Photos Sorter</a> (Tue Jan 17, 2023)
<br/>I'm creating processes to gradually move images from Google Photos to a home cloud NAS in a fun and addicting way. I'm using Python sets to identify and remove duplicates, chunking data to create indexed sequential namedtuples for each week of my life up to 100 years, and creating thumbnail folders when I'm ready.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/excel/">Excel</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/csv/">CSV</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>