<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-pandas-and-python-s-pathlib-to-load-multiple-csv-files-for-data-analysis/">How to Use Pandas and Python's Pathlib to Load Multiple CSV Files for Data Analysis</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I released a video and tweeted the link in time for the live premiere, and I created a program called ChopChop to help me chop my journal.md file. I used the .glob() method of a pathlib Path object to get a list of all the files in a directory, which I then used to "seed" my data project. Finally, I used pandas dataframes to turn the list of file paths into something I can expand outwards from. Check out my blog.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/allow-github-to-use-my-code-snippets-for-product-improvements/">Allow GitHub To Use My Code Snippets For Product Improvements</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently uncovered the power of AI and put it to work for me in my work-journal. To get the most out of these tools, I configured my GitHub Copilot settings in my JetBrains IDE or on GitHub.com. I'm excited to see how GitHub will use my code snippets to improve their products and how my journal.md entries will be transformed. See what AI can do for me - click through to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-vim-to-keep-one-journal-for-life/">Use vim to Keep One Journal For Life</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>I've been using Vim to journal and it has changed my life. It's difficult to learn, but the skills and muscle memory I've gained are permanent. Writing in Vim has helped me to better understand myself, and I've been able to use version control systems like Github to keep my .vimrc file with me wherever I go. I've also been learning new vim-tricks like buffers and registers to increase my power. Finally, I've created a single file, journal.md</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bopping-between-python-bash-scripts-no-biggie/">Bopping Between Python & Bash Scripts No Biggie</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved my Wordpress site off of my HostMonster account and exported the content as markdown. To re-publish the content, I used Github Pages and managed the blog content across 15 sites with a single journal.md file and a bash file. To make the process easier, I wrote a Python script, make_helpers, to manage the sites.txt file and change the order of the file locations. Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/removing-stopwords-from-jekyll-blog-urls/">Removing Stopwords From Jekyll Blog URLs</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently completed a 15-year project, blogslicer, as part of my ELPGD (every little project gets done) mentality. I used Linux, Python, vim, and git to create the program, and now I'm incorporating a feature to remove stopwords from Jekyll blog URLs using the Python library, nltk. I'm writing code to create a blog post with a given title, slug, and path, which will generate a journal.md file with a table</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/chrome/">Chrome</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/error/">Error</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>