<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-mike-levin-seo-vanity-search-test-w-bing-bard/">A Mike Levin SEO Vanity Search Test w/ Bing & Bard</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO expert based in NYC. I specialize in free and open source software and services, and have created a bookmarklet to help SEO Managers and Technologists. I've achieved a lot in the SEO field, including devising and aiding in the implementation of SEO strategies for Fortune 100s, and lifting the most notorious Google penalty in history. I'm passionate about helping others succeed, and I'm always looking for the next big thing in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-chat-with-chatgpt-about-the-cancel-culture-full-scroll-browser-snapshots/">A Chat with ChatGPT About the Cancel Culture & Full-scroll Browser Snapshots</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I discuss the potential of using AI at home with now cheap GPUs, exploring the improved efficiency, enhanced security, better health monitoring, and entertainment and education it can provide. Additionally, I explore potential ways to make money by promoting the ideas and benefits of AI at home, such as through affiliate marketing, advertising, consulting, and e-commerce. I also provide a code example of how to use Puppeteer or Playwright to capture the full vertical scroll.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-a-systemd-service-with-chatgpt/">Making a SystemD Service With ChatGPT</a> (Sun Feb 12, 2023)
<br/>I'm writing a systemd service that uses GNU screen to run a python script in the background. In this blog post, I share the details of the service, including the command to be run, the user account to run the service as, and the environment variables to be set. I also explain the meaning of the word "majordomo" and how to create a nbdev version 2 project in a folder called majordaemo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fernando-corbato-ken-tohompson-linux-torvals-oh-my/">Fernando Corbato, Ken Tohompson & Linux Torvals, Oh My!</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>Explore my Linux Wonderland, an idea inspired by the individuals who made star-nix possible: Fernando Corbato, Ken Thompson, and Linus Torvalds. I'm creating projects under starnix, doing long-running scripts that run in the context of Linux services called daemons. See how this approach to tech is now as big as webdev, thanks to the Windows Subsystem for Linux, W. Come join me on this journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automating-2fa-web-login-via-microsoft-playwright/">Automating 2FA Web Login via Microsoft Playwright</a> (Mon Jan 09, 2023)
<br/>After researching options, I decided to create a service to check if I still had web-based authentication. I then found the PyPi Authenticator project which allowed me to automate 2FA from the command line. After a long day, I was able to get it working and move on to the next project. Come read my story to learn how I solved my authentication problem!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-practice-folder-created/">Pipulate Practice Folder Created</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm pushing myself to take the next steps in the Pipulate project, focusing on collaboration and best practices. I'm exploring ideas to use AI to edit my YouTube videos, setting up the Pipulate repo and practice folder, and activating scheduling under a systemd service. I'm using nbdev version 2 and OhAwf with the addition of the run_console feature. All the necessary software can be found on the Pipulate Software page. Come explore the possibilities with me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-miss-my-talk-with-openai-about-clickbait-headlines/">Don't Miss My Talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines!</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>On December 2, 2022, I will be giving a talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines and the top 100 clickbait headlines I have compiled. I will also discuss why writing headlines that accurately describe the content of an article is a better strategy, as well as the benefits of keeping a journal, such as increased self-awareness, improved mental health, stress reduction, enhanced problem solving skills, and better communication skills. Finally, I will explain how Vim is a powerful and flexible text editor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-miss-my-talk-with-openai-about-clickbait-headlines/">Don't Miss My Talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines!</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>On December 2, 2022, I will be giving a talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines and the top 100 clickbait headlines I have compiled. I will also discuss why writing headlines that accurately describe the content of an article is a better strategy, as well as the benefits of keeping a journal, such as increased self-awareness, improved mental health, stress reduction, enhanced problem solving skills, and better communication skills. Finally, I will explain how Vim is a powerful and flexible text editor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-the-screen-command-for-linux-service/">How to Use the Screen Command for Linux Service</a> (Fri Oct 28, 2022)
<br/>As I learn how to use the Screen Command for Linux Service, I'm documenting my journey with a blog post. I've written a file to be placed in /etc/systemd/system/ and have watched a video to help me better understand the process. Come join me as I explore this new technology!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/write-a-linux-scheduler-service-in-python/">Write a Linux Scheduler Service in Python</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a lightweight Linux Scheduler Service in Python that uses the 'schedule' package to define and execute Python functions. I'm exploring ways to manage files and keep scheduled tasks in separate folders. In this blog post, I'll be taking you through the process of setting up a precursor to a data pipelining video. Read on to learn how to create a powerful, yet lightweight, scheduling system!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-gnu-screen-to-monitor-linux-system-daemon-service/">Using GNU Screen to Monitor Linux System Daemon Service</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to install Linux on Windows machines and get Linux services running under GNU Screen under an LXD Container. Discover the advantages of mastering generic Linux tech over web development and how to get started. I provide an example of a Python script to monitor a Linux system daemon service, and I walk you through the steps for installing Ubuntu 18.04, updating the file /etc/systemd/system/pulse.service, installing the program screen.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/keywords/">Keywords</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/panda/">Pandas</a></div></div>