<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-google-photos-api-to-generate-main-archive-favorite-media-lists/">Using Google Photos API to Generate Main, Archive & Favorite Media Lists</a> (Fri Feb 03, 2023)
<br/>I'm using Google Photos API to generate three databases - 'all', 'main', and 'favorites' - and an 'archive' database. I'm using Python functions to query the API, store the results, and create custom labeled tuples with a start date and end date. I'm also chunking the project into week-by-week chunks, making it easier to manage. This code provides a way to make the code clearer and easier to understand.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-tuple-keys/">An Ode Tuple Keys</a> (Sat Jan 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm downloading an update for Windows 10 Version 22H2 and transitioning to Linux, using the power of NT's "rings of protection". I'm running Web browser automation under Microsoft Playwright and using iPython Notebooks under JupyterLab running on Linux. I'm also exploring the usefulness of tuples in Python, and looping through a database of URLs to extract data and create a table which I'm writing to a parquet file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/concurrent-web-crawling-in-python/">Concurrent Web Crawling in Python</a> (Mon Feb 21, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm celebrating President's Day by accomplishing a mission: creating an async Python function to return zipped input/output promises. I'm also working on handling a list of tuples as input and building a package called mlseo on PyPI. To top it off, I've completed a concurrent site crawler in Python that uses SQLite. Join me in celebrating President's Day with this amazing progress!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-as-performance-art/">Journaling As Performance Art</a> (Fri Feb 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a performance art piece that auto-publishes my journal entries on Github.io. I'm also building a get_responses function that takes a list of URLs or tuples and returns a list of tuples. I'm testing it by providing it with a list of URLs and a function and checking the output. My goal is to get responses from a list of URLs and assign them either 'foo' or 'bar', then return them as a list. For example, when</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/amiga/">Amiga</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/qnap/">QNAP</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>