<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-x-marks-the-spot/">Rappelling Down the Rabbit Hole, X-Marks The Spot</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin, SEO in NYC, shares his experience of rappelling down the rabbit hole of GPT and other AI-related technologies. He explains the power of using one text editor for life and the advantages of using open source tools like NeoVim and Emacs. He also shares his insights into the dangers of AI and encourages readers to develop empathy for these technologies.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/become-aware-of-how-tech-churn-harms-you/">Become Aware of How Tech-churn Harms You</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm 52 and have experienced the harsh reality of technological obsolescence. To future-proof my tech career, I have decided to focus on developing skills that can't be taken away, such as muscle memory and habits. I have also chosen to focus on tech that changes the least over time, and created the term LPvg (Linux, Python, vim and git) to highlight four essential tools. I'm journaling almost every day to help others learn these tools, so they can stay ahead.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-not-lose-the-power-of-touch-typing-despite-ai-apis/">Do Not Lose The Power of Touch Typing Despite AI APIs</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As a tech enthusiast, I believe that touch typing on a standard keyboard is still an important skill to learn and practice, even in the age of smartphones and AI. Touchscreens can't provide the same muscle memory as a standard keyboard, and touch typing is a great way to express your inner vibe. Don't let the power of touch typing be lost - learning this highly useful skill is key to mastering machines and taking control of your life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/righteous-feedback-loops-of-self-improvement/">Righteous Feedback Loops of Self-Improvement</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I start every day with a mantra of three questions and two modifiers to help condition my mind and get into the mindset of journaling. Through this daily practice, I'm learning to focus on small wins and use tools like Linux, Python, vim, and git to mechanically get tasks done. I'm also avoiding activities like video games and sports that may have long-term payoffs, and instead focusing on projects that will help me achieve small wins. By using the 80/20 rule and Rabbit</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-vim-to-keep-one-journal-for-life/">Use vim to Keep One Journal For Life</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>I've been using Vim to journal and it has changed my life. It's difficult to learn, but the skills and muscle memory I've gained are permanent. Writing in Vim has helped me to better understand myself, and I've been able to use version control systems like Github to keep my .vimrc file with me wherever I go. I've also been learning new vim-tricks like buffers and registers to increase my power. Finally, I've created a single file, journal.md</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/magic/">Magic</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/meta-descriptions/">Meta Descriptions</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>