<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-ais-will-find-you-if-you-re-unique/">The AIs Will Find You If You're Unique</a> (Mon Feb 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm taking my Google Photos processing to the next level by creating a service to download and copy one month of photos at random. To do this, I'm using Python scripts, headless Linux Chrome automation, and the headlines import to generate a list of files to be archived. I'm also taking the Google Photos tutorial out of the practice folder and moving it to the actual gphotos repo. Follow my journey as I take my Google Photos processing to the next level!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cluster-keywords-from-google-suggest-api/">How To Cluster Keywords From Google Suggest API</a> (Sat Feb 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring all the amazing features Google Photos has to offer, from converting HEIC to JPG to downloading, editing videos, and more. To come up with SEO-friendly names for my project, I wrote code to cluster keywords into groups and created a dictionary mapping each keyword to its group. I also wrote a function to find the most common two-word combination for each group and mapped that to the group name, creating a csv file with the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/your-current-video-card-driver-does-not-support-this-nvenc-version-please-update-your-drivers/">Your current video card driver does not support this NVENC version please update your drivers.</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>Having trouble starting a screen capture with OBS? I ran into the same issue and figured out how to fix it by downloading the correct video driver from the NVIDIA website. I identified the correct driver by going to Windows Device Manager and finding the NVIDIA GeForce GTX 1060. Read my blog post to find out more about this issue and how I solved it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/installing-wsl2-on-windows-10-requires-kernel-update-and-hypervisor-turned-on/">Installing WSL2 on Windows 10 Requires Kernel Update And Hypervisor Turned On</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to use WSL2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux) on Windows 10 with just three steps: enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux, enabling Hypervisor, and downloading and running a patch. To make sure any future WSL instances are version 2, run the command 'wsl --set-default-version 2'. For more information on Terminal-based Linux, follow Mike Levin on YouTube.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/easy-peasy-computer-literacy/">Easy Peasy Computer Literacy</a> (Fri May 20, 2022)
<br/>At 50 years old, I discovered my passion for Linux, Python, vim & git, and have been mastering it for 10 years. I use JupyterLab for learning, and am concerned about relying on vendor-driven power-tools like VSCode. To combat this, I'm following the JupyterLab contributors on Github and Twitter to ensure the Mac and Windows versions are up-to-date. Read my article to learn more about the divide between VSCode and</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/update/">Update</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/pypi/">PyPI</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>