<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-lxd-let-us-run-generic-linux-server-build-scripts-without-docker/">WSL & LXD Let Us Run Generic Linux Server-Build Scripts Without Docker</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>As a user, I prefer LXD from Canonical over Docker for its ease of installation without a complex API. Additionally, Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) provides a container system that can be used to create "server build scripts" to install a Linux server on Windows 10 or 11. With this, I can have a Linux server running in the background on my laptop. Read more to learn how to set up your own Linux server on Windows.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxdwin-is-now-the-drinkme-jupyterlab-linux-install-script/">LXDWIN is now the DrinkMe JupyterLab Linux Install Script</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>I've rebranded my lxdwin repository to drinkme, and I'm starting a big data-pull project for work. I'm creating a repo folder so everyone can follow along and I'll make a video about it. Come join me and see how it all unfolds!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-gnu-screen-to-monitor-linux-system-daemon-service/">Using GNU Screen to Monitor Linux System Daemon Service</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to install Linux on Windows machines and get Linux services running under GNU Screen under an LXD Container. Discover the advantages of mastering generic Linux tech over web development and how to get started. I provide an example of a Python script to monitor a Linux system daemon service, and I walk you through the steps for installing Ubuntu 18.04, updating the file /etc/systemd/system/pulse.service, installing the program screen.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-jupyter-desktop-set-python-environment-error-message/">Fixing Jupyter Desktop Set Python Environment Error Message</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I recently encountered an error message when using JupterLab-Desktop 3.3.4-2 and was able to fix it by installing the official Python 3.10.5 from Python.org and creating a venv named pyw3105. Read my blog post to find out how I did it and learn how to fix the Jupter Desktop Set Python Environment problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media. Take the first step</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linux-lesson-2-run-run-it-from-cli/">Learning Linux Lesson #2: RUN! Run it from CLI!</a> (Tue Jun 07, 2022)
<br/>As someone who knows that Linux is the future, I'm here to tell you that learning it doesn't have to be intimidating. With the help of commands like ls, cd, and pwd, you can easily navigate the command-line interface. And with Windows 11, it's easier than ever to install Linux. So take my advice and join the future of computing!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/device/">Device</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/command-line/">Command-Line</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>