<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/keyword-clustering-my-blog-posts-with-kmeans/">Keyword Clustering My Blog Posts With KMeans</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>As a computer user, I appreciate the consistency of the user interface, which has remained largely unchanged since the 1960s. I'm grateful for the tools that have the perfect balance of usability and staying-power, which improve gradually and don't require me to press the reset button on my skills and career. This blog post explores how to use KMeans clustering to group 500 articles into 10 clusters based on their keyword metadata, extract keywords from each article, and identify topics in the posts.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-a-better-place-to-blog-than-twitter/">This is a better place to blog than Twitter</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As I explore different blogging platforms, I'm learning that true automation is an illusion. I'm looking for cheaper options with less tech liability, while still remembering the debt I owe computers after being stung twice. Join me on my journey to find the perfect blogging platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plotting-a-post-scarcity-future-for-humanity-with-chatgpt/">Plotting a Post-Scarcity Future for Humanity with ChatGPT</a> (Tue Feb 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the x10, x100 rule of perception and how it might replace Google. With OpenAI's release of the first AI in 2022, I'm looking at how ChatGPT can help me create an AI sidekick persona and a roadmap for success. I'm also advocating for free and open-source software and the power of combining human abilities with technology. Join me as I discuss how to create a sustainable retirement gig.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bank-a-win-then-figure-out-how-you-did-it/">Bank a Win Then Figure Out How You Did It</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm not a natural linguist, but I'm determined to pursue a career in tech because of its precise language. Instead of relying on others to do the work for me, I'm investing my free time to become more comfortable with the language of technology. I'm banking a win and embracing the challenge, just like a Thanksgiving turkey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/qnap/">QNAP</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/execute/">Execute</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>