<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-ai-s-opinion-of-hottest-tech-fields/">Exploring AI's Opinion of Hottest Tech Fields</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I asked ChatGPTL what the top five tech specialties following Linux were that would give me the most value to employers. ChatGPTL responded with a list of five highly sought-after and well-paying skills: IT Automation, AI & Machine Learning, Quantum Computing, Connected Technologies, and Fintech. Read my blog post to learn more about these skills and how to determine which ones are right for you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-amplifies-you/">AI Amplifies You</a> (Thu Mar 02, 2023)
<br/>As a father of a 12 year old, I'm looking for ways to help them get interested in AI and technology. I've written a script called "drinkme" to set up a Linux server, and I'm creating a Pipulate server with a Jupyter Notebook for foundational tech skills. My goal is to help my child survive the coming AI craziness and learn real skills and knowledge. Come explore how AI can be used to help your child!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-which-saw-to-keep-sharp/">Figuring Out Which Saw To Keep Sharp</a> (Sat Jan 28, 2023)
<br/>As I look for ways to stay marketable and increase my economic value, I'm exploring the use of AI as an agent with my login credentials. SEO has become my purpose and I'm researching the potential of new technologies like ChatGPT to bridge the gap between what people can do and what machines can do. Join me as I dive into this research and discover how AI can help me stay ahead of the curve.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/should-i-no-longer-hyde-from-a-jekyll-server/">Should I No Longer Hyde From a Jekyll Server?</a> (Sat Dec 31, 2022)
<br/>After months of hard work, I'm proud to say I'm improving my skills with Github Pages and Github Actions. Thanks to ChatGPT, I now know how to run Jekyll on my local Linux machine like Github Pages. Now, it's time to celebrate with a New Years party!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/don-t-miss-my-talk-with-openai-about-clickbait-headlines/">Don't Miss My Talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines!</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>On December 2, 2022, I will be giving a talk with OpenAI about clickbait headlines and the top 100 clickbait headlines I have compiled. I will also discuss why writing headlines that accurately describe the content of an article is a better strategy, as well as the benefits of keeping a journal, such as increased self-awareness, improved mental health, stress reduction, enhanced problem solving skills, and better communication skills. Finally, I will explain how Vim is a powerful and flexible text editor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-i-want-to-offer-the-world-doesn-t-align-with-existing-youtube-search/">What I Want To Offer The World Doesn't Align With Existing YouTube Search</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm offering something new to the world: hand and finger magic tricks that I learned from my mailman. I'm targeting adults aged 25 to 44, and I want to help them grab skills for life. My YouTube analytics show that I have a large female audience and I'm now using my knowledge to become a pied piper of a new generation. Come join me and learn valuable knowledge that will help you future-proof your skills.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-vim-to-keep-one-journal-for-life/">Use vim to Keep One Journal For Life</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>I've been using Vim to journal and it has changed my life. It's difficult to learn, but the skills and muscle memory I've gained are permanent. Writing in Vim has helped me to better understand myself, and I've been able to use version control systems like Github to keep my .vimrc file with me wherever I go. I've also been learning new vim-tricks like buffers and registers to increase my power. Finally, I've created a single file, journal.md</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-project-gets-done/">Every Little Project Gets Done!</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed the name of my project to ELTgd (Every Little Thing Gets Done) to push myself to do more and practice my vim skills. I'm also using whatsametafor.io to document my progress. Click through to read more about my journey and how I'm getting things done!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/success/">Success</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/google-photos/">Google Photos</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>