<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/first-day-on-new-job-i-throw-out-my-back/">First Day on New Job & I Throw Out My Back!</a> (Mon Feb 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old SEO expert who has been working in the tech industry for over 25 years. After working at a spin-off of Commodore and a PR company in NYC, I created the Web 2.0-era writing suggestion tool HitTail. I have since done interesting things such as crawling websites directly into Google Docs with API-joins. Today, I'm starting a new journey as an employee of Moz.com and am excited to use my skills and experience.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/unix-linux-won-are-now-the-rules-of-the-road/">Unix/Linux Won & Are Now The Rules of The Road</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin is a 20+ year veteran of the SEO industry who has seen many changes in technology over the years. From his experience as a student intern at Commodore to his current knowledge of Intel Management Engine (IME) and its implications for privacy, Mike has a deep understanding of Unix/Linux and its ever-growing presence in the tech world. Read his blog post to learn more about his journey and the impact of Unix/Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/1991-was-an-eventful-year-for-tech/">1991 Was An Eventful Year For Tech</a> (Wed May 25, 2022)
<br/>In 1991, I experienced a world-changing event: Linux was released by Linus Torvalds, followed by FreeBSD three years later. That same year, the first version of vim was released and the world's first website was published. Intel's lock on the x86-architecture was broken, while ARM architecture became popular due to Texas Instruments and Nokia. Join me as I look back at this pivotal year in the home computer industry and the impact it had on the tech market.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-dangers-of-being-predisposed-why-apple-won/">The Dangers of Being Predisposed (Why Apple Won)</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>As a fan of the Amiga computer, I was angry to see Apple Computers winning in the education market. Jay Miner, the creator of the Amiga, suggested a guerilla tactic to bring his computer magazines into doctors and dentists offices. Despite Apple's superior marketing, I still love the Amiga and look for its features in today's technology. I advocate for Linux, Python, vim & git, and I encourage others to explore these technologies.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/filter/">Filter</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/tuples/">Tuples</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>