<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-script-to-pull-keywords-from-moz-pro-keyword-research-ranking-keywords/">A Script To Pull Keywords From MOZ Pro Keyword Research Ranking Keywords</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides a step-by-step guide to automating browser actions using Playwright Browser Automation and Jupyter Notebook to pull keywords from MOZ Pro's Keyword Research Ranking Keywords. Additionally, I explain how to set up the environment, execute the code, and download files from a website.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-ai-to-streamline-blogging-and-content-creation/">Using AI to Streamline Blogging and Content Creation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I'm using the OpenAI API to simplify my blogging and content creation process. I'm writing my daily work-journal in a single markdown file and using AI to generate article summaries, meta descriptions, subheads, and keywords. I'm now looking to use browser automation and Github Copilot's API to save money. I also want to publish my Tweets, an Instapaper project, and read Daniel Kahneman's book. So many projects more approachable!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/notebook-based-browser-automation-with-nbdev/">Notebook-based Browser Automation With NBDev</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a journal to document my journey of improving my life with NBDev. NBDev makes writing code easier and more organized, and it's a great improvement over VSCode's Jupyter Notebook extension. I had some trouble shooting a video with OBS, but the nbdev_export worked well. Follow my journey as I document my successes and learn from my mistakes!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tackling-moz-browser-automation-until-i-get-it-right/">Tackling MOZ Browser Automation Until I Get It Right</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm tackling browser automation with the MOZ Links API and Chrome, and have set up a Playwright context on a Linux server. I'm writing code to automate tasks for MOZ Pro, and running the code from the command line with "python mozpro.py -k" to analyze keywords and download the results. Join me on my journey as I explore the possibilities of automated browser tasks with MOZ Pro!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-a-next-gen-seo-project/">Introducing A Next Gen SEO Project</a> (Wed Mar 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm introducing a complex project that uses Linux, browser automation, and Microsoft's implementation of Linux to automate data tasks. I'm also transitioning to Linux, Python, vim, git, and Jupyter for web development, and I'll be using a Linux VM and a web browser to access a Linux CLI from my Windows system. This will allow me to automate tasks and build a Linux server from my Windows system.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-google-photos-organization-program/">Testing Google Photos Organization Program</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm testing a Google Photos organization system, uploading photos to my NAS, and setting up a home cloud to increase my storage capabilities. To get around certain API limitations, I'm using Microsoft Playwright browser automation on a headless LXD server. In this blog post, I discuss the impact of media on society and how it can be used to shape public opinion and create a more informed and connected society. Read more to find out my thoughts on this important topic.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-crazy-old-batch-files-were-right/">The Crazy Old Batch Files Were Right</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently used browser automation to work around Google Photo API limitations and am now attempting to slurp down all the images that have been uploaded to the cloud over the years, while keeping the Apple Motion data intact. I'm teaching people how to set up a Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO server on their Windows 10 or 11 desktop, leveraging the Microsoft Subsystem for Linux and Jupyter Notebooks. I'm also exploring how Python 3 will remain the final version of Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/browser-automation-becoming-natural-easy-at-long-last/">Browser Automation Becoming Natural & Easy At Long Last</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a big project and documenting my progress on my blog. I've combined tabs into one data frame, deduped the list, calculated job eta, picked APIs date format, and defined typical month ranges for GA APIs. I'm now ready to perform browser automation, configuring the browser to be headless and setting up a namedtuple for arguments. I'm also using the Pandas library to read a directory full of downloads and joining them together.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-pivot-of-big-data-pull/">Planning a Pivot of Big Data Pull</a> (Thu Dec 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm organizing data from a browser automation job using Microsoft Playwright and Python. To practice "Best Foot Forward" SEO, I'm using Google Sheets to create sparklines with linear regression lines. I'm also using pivot tables and group by functions to summarize and analyze the data in Excel and Google Sheets. I'll deliver the data transforms by tonight, and the choice between the two depends on my needs and the complexity of the data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-large-browser-automation-job/">Planning A Large Browser Automation Job</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm getting ready for a big browser automation job. I'm creating a new folder, making a repository, giving the project a codename, loading data into a dataframe, deduplicating it, calculating an estimated time of completion, and generating API-calls for the full year. Plus, I'm setting up a structure to step through a database and perform an API call or browser automation, creating a namedtuple with 100 domains, and using a template for browser automation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-3-different-data-automation-projects/">Powering My Way Through 3 Different Data Automation Projects</a> (Thu Nov 03, 2022)
<br/>Today, I powered my way through three data automation projects, using tricks to make the work more enjoyable and browser automation to avoid extra steps. I sliced a Jupyter Notebook, loaded data, and used a modulo technique to chop a long keyword list into batches of 100. Despite feeling mentally fatigued, I finished the day with a sense of satisfaction. Read more to learn how I overcame hurdles and proved the viability of the project.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/success/">Success</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/search/">Search</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>