<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/git-rebase-i-root-vs-git-init-anew/">`git rebase -i --root` vs. `git init` anew</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I attempted to learn how to use the `git rebase` command to clean up my git history and speed up my repository. I discovered on big repos with lots of issues, it's easier to just `git init` and do the old swaparoo with a new repo. Also explore philosophical questions about existence and the relative importance of things, and relationship to retiring an old git repo and starting anew.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-svg-images-in-markdown-cells-of-jupyter-notebooks/">Embedding SVG Images in Markdown Cells of Jupyter Notebooks</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explains how I wrote a Python program that uses the base64 module to encode an SVG image file, generates an HTML img tag with the encoded data as the src attribute, and outputs the HTML img tag as a string. This allows the image to be displayed properly in a markdown cell of a Jupyter Notebook, making it easy to reference the original file. Read on to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-crazy-old-batch-files-were-right/">The Crazy Old Batch Files Were Right</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently used browser automation to work around Google Photo API limitations and am now attempting to slurp down all the images that have been uploaded to the cloud over the years, while keeping the Apple Motion data intact. I'm teaching people how to set up a Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO server on their Windows 10 or 11 desktop, leveraging the Microsoft Subsystem for Linux and Jupyter Notebooks. I'm also exploring how Python 3 will remain the final version of Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recording-vim-macro-for-markdown-image-insertion/">Recording vim macro for markdown image insertion</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm hosting a livecasting event to show you how to use vim macros to quickly turn keyworded image files into the markdown required for HTML image insertion. I'll be demonstrating how to use search & replace patterns to capitalize and separate words, so you can learn how to quickly add images to your blog posts. Join me to learn this time-saving technique!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recording-vim-macro-for-markdown-image-insertion/">Recording vim macro for markdown image insertion</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm hosting a livecasting event to show you how to use vim macros to quickly turn keyworded image files into the markdown required for HTML image insertion. I'll be demonstrating how to use search & replace patterns to capitalize and separate words, so you can learn how to quickly add images to your blog posts. Join me to learn this time-saving technique!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/book/">Book</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/education/">Education</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>