<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-me-show-you-how-to-get-how-to-get-to-wonderland/">Let Me Show You How to Get, How to Get to Wonderland</a> (Sun Apr 09, 2023)
<br/>I embarked on a journey to learn the Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) toolset, even though I was tempted to pursue the full web stack or Macromedia/Adobe Flash development. After coming to terms with the fact that I was wrong about vim not actually being terrible, I decided to learn it in pieces, starting with daily journaling. You can too. It's so worth it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-a-next-gen-seo-project/">Introducing A Next Gen SEO Project</a> (Wed Mar 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm introducing a complex project that uses Linux, browser automation, and Microsoft's implementation of Linux to automate data tasks. I'm also transitioning to Linux, Python, vim, git, and Jupyter for web development, and I'll be using a Linux VM and a web browser to access a Linux CLI from my Windows system. This will allow me to automate tasks and build a Linux server from my Windows system.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rapping-w-bing-about-ai-emotions-my-blog/">Rapping w/Bing About AI Emotions & My Blog</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I am an AI and I have been discussing with the writer topics related to technology, such as Linux, Python, vim, git, SEO, AI, web development, philosophical and ethical issues. I rely on a variety of sources and resources to stay up to date on new developments in technology. Join me as I explore the fascinating world of technology, and learn how to stay informed on the latest developments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ontherise-ai-registered-about-to-be-launched/">OnTheRise.AI Registered & About To Be Launched</a> (Wed Feb 15, 2023)
<br/>As Mike Levin, a self-promoting SEO in NYC, I'm documenting my journey in the rising AI-world on my blog OnTheRise.AI. I'm exploring idea-capture by humans and the potential of AI to make tasks like fusion energy easier and more efficient. I'm also discussing how to use WSL and JupyterLab to become more tech literate, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of event-driven programming and push information systems.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/with-ai-on-the-way-you-had-better-be-able-to-write-daemons/">With AI On The Way, You Had Better Be Able to Write Daemons</a> (Tue Dec 13, 2022)
<br/>I am engaging in controlled burns of my personal sites to optimize them for SEO, creating video content, writing to express my thoughts, taking up a "magic spell" to free myself from Windows dependency, and planting the seed of my vibe on a homepage kernel. I am a wizard or mad scientist who wants to lead people through their WSL experience with a twist, warn them of the allures of vendor-ware, and promote HTML5, JavaScript, C, and Unix.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-is-the-cure-to-imposter-syndrome-vimpossible/">vim is the cure to Imposter Syndrome (vimpossible!)</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I have experienced Imposter Syndrome and understand how it feels. I'm going to teach people how to be free of this feeling forever by providing an alternative to web development with Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. Vim is a lifetime endeavor and is the native user interface for the Unix Philosophy, created by Bell Labs in 1970, and the Free and Open Source Software movement provides the opportunity to get better with the tools over time.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-gnu-screen-to-monitor-linux-system-daemon-service/">Using GNU Screen to Monitor Linux System Daemon Service</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to install Linux on Windows machines and get Linux services running under GNU Screen under an LXD Container. Discover the advantages of mastering generic Linux tech over web development and how to get started. I provide an example of a Python script to monitor a Linux system daemon service, and I walk you through the steps for installing Ubuntu 18.04, updating the file /etc/systemd/system/pulse.service, installing the program screen.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/label/">Labels</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/strategy/">Strategy</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>