<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-to-the-status-quo/">An Ode to The Status Quo</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>I explore the idea of accepting the status quo and not striving for discovery in this ode. I emphasize the importance of practice and the power of repetition. I also caution against the pitfalls of making too much effort and the fallacy of pop culture.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automatically-log-into-moz-pro-with-playwright-browser-automation/">Automatically Log Into MOZ Pro with Playwright Browser Automation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>This blog post will walk you through using Microsoft Playwright's browser automation software to automatically log into MOZ Pro and download Keyword Explorer data for each subdomain. Using asynchronous mode and my standard Chrome automation template, I am logging into the MOZ Pro website and using the Keyword Explorer feature to pull keywords from a given site with the help of the async Python library. Read on to learn how to automate this process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/optimizing-moz-pro-true-competitor-keyword-overlap-for-quota-limits/">Optimizing MOZ Pro True Competitor Keyword Overlap For Quota Limits</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I'm using the MOZ Pro True Competitor report to optimize keyword overlap, and have identified 128 competitors. After filtering them to those with at least 2% overlap, I'm left with 59 unique sites to download. To ensure accuracy, I'm adding the original sites and their subdomains back into the list. Now, I'm feeling rested and ready to tackle a mini-project of renaming the downloads without subdomains. Join me as I take on this task!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/project-deteriorates-into-tools-discussion-again/">Project Deteriorates Into Tools Discussion Again</a> (Fri Apr 14, 2023)
<br/>I started a project in MOZ Pro by selecting a domain and downloading the CSV file. I then added 30_data.ipynb to the repo, using the apex domain as part of the filename. After that, I had a list of competitors and I could pull their keywords. I was tempted to try VSCode running as a Linux app on WSL, but the UI was too clunky. I share my experience in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/addictive-self-reinforcing-double-helix-pair-of-motivating-projects/">Addictive & Self-Reinforcing Double-Helix Pair of Motivating Projects</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting two exciting projects that will motivate and energize each other. The first is creating a comprehensive slide deck about our data and how it compares to competitors, in a storytelling format. The second is to Moz-itize my work, easing people into this approach and starting each project with a kernel. Come join me on this journey and learn how to make the most of your data!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/operating-systems/">Operating Systems</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/emacs/">Emacs</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>