<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss Microsoft's Embrace & Displace strategy and how it relates to Linux. I explore how this strategy can be used to benefit you, by embracing Linux and its timeless tools, and avoiding the pitfalls of planned obsolescence. Learn how to use vi, vim, NeoVim, the command-line, git, and ssh to stay competitive and never be displaced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-technology-predictions-for-2023/">My Technology Predictions For 2023</a> (Sun Dec 18, 2022)
<br/>As we enter 2023, I predict a shift from "does it blend" videos to "is it sentient" videos. Fusion will become self-sustaining, but set back 30 years. Python will adopt a Frenchman as its mascot, Elon Musk will release a Starlink phone without a telecom provider, and Microsoft will make VSCode a requirement for WSL2. Finally, I'll reveal that we have maglev antigravity technology, but it's not what you expect.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/contemplating-labeling-latest-work-pipulate-again/">Contemplating Labeling Latest Work Pipulate Again</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm considering labeling my latest work as Pipulate and adding an "automount" option to my DrinkMe Linux install script. My YouTube video on the truth about systemd under WSL2 is gaining traction and I'm contemplating a workflow change, capturing ideas and forging source as Docker becomes more popular. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the decisions I'm making.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-video-series-that-drives-message-home/">Planning a Video Series That Drives Message Home</a> (Thu Aug 25, 2022)
<br/>This video series will be a tutorial on how to move away from Microsoft and Apple systems and will explore topics such as Windows 10, WSL2, LXD Containers, and programming projects. I'll also discuss the evolution of an idea, the pursuit of craft, the 80/20-rule, and how to do what you love for money. Join me on this journey to reach a wider audience and learn how to make the switch from Microsoft and Apple systems.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share how I tested Ubuntu 20.04 to see if I could easily install LXD. I found that Ubuntu 18.04 is the easier option, since it comes pre-installed with LXD and allows you to quickly get up and running. I also discuss my preference for local services over cloud resources, my advocacy for Linux and my blue-collar mechanic approach to tech literacy. Finally, I suggest JupyterLab-Desktop as a great way to learn Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/share-folder-between-windows-wsl-linux-container-and-home-cloud/">Share Folder Between Windows, WSL Linux, Container and Home Cloud</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As an IT professional, I'm setting up a shared ~/data folder across four different locations: my laptop's main Windows system, a Linux system running under WSL2, an LXD Linux Container hosted under WSL2, and an LXD Container hosted on a separate machine. I'm mapping a network drive from my laptop's Windows system, mounting a drive from the Linux system, and adding a device to the LXD Linux Container. Follow my journey as I set up this complex shared folder</li>
<li><a href="/blog/setting-up-lxd-on-wsl2-with-systemd-enabled-ubuntu-18-04/">Setting Up LXD on WSL2 with systemd enabled Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Wed Jul 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my first LXD container on WSL2, using Ubuntu 18.04. I've used lxd init and lxc launch to get the container running, and added two locations from the WSL2 Linux host to the container. I'm now preparing to start experimenting and need to make sure I have the right tools installed. I'm also learning how to check if systemd is running, and getting everything ready for my first container.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-11-is-more-like-windows-il-for-it-s-linux/">Windows 11 is more like Windows Il (for It's Linux)</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>Get ready to take the plunge into the world of Linux and Unix-based systems with Windows 11! I'm stubbornly staying on Windows 10 for now, but by enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux and the Hypervisor, I can still experience the move-to-Linux experience Microsoft has planned for us. With the help of Steve Jobs and Lennart Poettering, I can run Linux Terminal sessions under WSL2 and even upgrade my instance to Linux Containers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-container-on-windows-wsl2-using-nas-smb-cifs-share/">LXD Container on Windows WSL2 Using NAS SMB/CIFS Share</a> (Mon Jul 25, 2022)
<br/>After struggling to set up a LXD container, I found the solution to my problem - mapping my NAS, .ssh folder, .gitconfig, and .vimrc files, and then running two commands from within the container. I also had to mount a Windows network share using the command 'sudo mount -t drvfs '\\EchidNAS\data' /mnt/data'. Now my LXD container is running as expected.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-into-lxd-wsl2-home-once-you-ve-moved-into-containers/">Moving Into LXD WSL2 ~/ "Home" Once You've Moved Into Containers</a> (Wed Jul 20, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explains how I am using Linux Containers (LXD) and WSL2 to create a comfortable and productive home, inspired by a YouTube video about a child prodigy. I'm detailing the steps I'm taking to mount my ~/github and ~/.ssh files to my container, codifying the steps to create a container, setting up a script to put a few files directly in ~/ including a .bash_profile, creating a "helpers" repo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-lxd-running-under-wsl2-on-windows-11-with-ubuntu-18-04/">Get LXD Running Under WSL2 on Windows 11 with Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>Learn how I got LXD running on Windows 11 with Ubuntu 18.04. I'll show you how to download the install.sh file, enable systemd, and test if it's running. Plus, I'll share how to fix failed attempts and start fresh. Get all the steps you need to get LXD up and running today.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/on-being-unstoppable-apis-lxd-lxd-under-wsl2-success/">On Being Unstoppable, APIs & LXD / LXD Under WSL2 (Success!)</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who recently figured out how to log into a running LXD session from WSL2, I'm encouraging readers to not let anyone or anything stop them from advancing and learning. I use the example of Maxwell's Demon to explain how entropy can be overcome, and suggest using Linux Daemons to help us become Maxwell's Demon. I emphasize the importance of protecting the quality of information coming in and recognizing lies, as well as staying relentless in the pursuit of truth. Finally, I emphasize the</li>
<li><a href="/blog/livestreaming-question-answers-with-youtube-audience/">Livestreaming Question & Answers With YouTube Audience</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have been made obsolete by so many things, but I'm using the tools Microsoft is providing to stay relevant. In this video, I discuss how knowledge workers bring their minds and capabilities to their job, and how I use my own CMS called Skite to take notes and organize my work. I also share tips on avoiding vendor traps and obsolescence resistance, such as using Python dict API, Sqlite3, Django and Flask, and the Unix Way. I</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-on-wsl2-is-a-few-months-ahead-of-its-time/">LXD on WSL2 is a Few Months Ahead Of Its Time</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>As an early adopter of LXD on WSL2, I've encountered confusion between LXD and Docker, downgraded tutorials to Ubuntu 18.04, confirmed LXD requires systemd, tested to see if it is running, and encountered network context issues. I have also found various approaches to solve them. Join me as I explore the challenges and solutions of LXD on WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reverting-wsl2-from-ubuntu-20-04-to-18-04-to-get-lxd-containers-working/">Reverting WSL2 From Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 To Get LXD Containers Working</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently explored the process of downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 under WSL2, as well as concepts such as LXD, venv, virtualenv, tmux, screen, and Python. I discussed the importance of good fixed-file-location habits, and how LXD is similar to venv/virtualenv in terms of packaging dependencies. I also compared Docker and LXD. To further my learning, I am dedicating my lunch break and free time to</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-updates-kb5014699-kb5013887-lxd-on-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04/">Windows Updates KB5014699 & KB5013887 & LXD on WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>After a long update process, I realized the Windows Updates I had downloaded weren't what I was looking for. I then tried to get LXD running under WSL2 on Ubuntu 20.04 but was unsuccessful. Switching to Ubuntu 18.04 allowed me to get LXD running, but now I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I make my next video out of the arts? Read my blog post to find out what I decide!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/failed-getting-lxd-working-under-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04-systemd-snap/">Failed Getting LXD Working Under WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04 systemd & snap</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I tried to get LXD running on WSL2, but couldn't make it work. Now I'm trying two things to make it work: installing the kernel headers and ZFS, and loading the module. I'll need to reload the module after each restart. Read my blog post to find out how this journey went!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sun-microsystem-s-zettabyte-file-system-opensolaris-zfs-under-wsl2/">Sun Microsystem's Zettabyte File System (OpenSolaris ZFS) Under WSL2</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm installing OpenSolaris ZFS as part of a larger effort to have access to all the best developer stuff on my Linux WSL2 system. I ran into some errors while trying to get LXC and LXD running, but I was able to get everything working with the help of the 'wsl --help' command. I'm excited to have LXD running under WSL and am looking forward to the next livestream which will be about developing Linux system services with LXD.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/installing-wsl2-on-windows-10-requires-kernel-update-and-hypervisor-turned-on/">Installing WSL2 on Windows 10 Requires Kernel Update And Hypervisor Turned On</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to use WSL2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux) on Windows 10 with just three steps: enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux, enabling Hypervisor, and downloading and running a patch. To make sure any future WSL instances are version 2, run the command 'wsl --set-default-version 2'. For more information on Terminal-based Linux, follow Mike Levin on YouTube.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/url/">URLs</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/chatgpt/">ChatGPT</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>