<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/being-in-the-zone-vs-thinking-about-being-in-the-zone/">Being In The Zone vs. Thinking About Being In The Zone</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently had an interesting discussion with my kid about the importance of being in the zone and not thinking about being in the zone. We discussed how it's important to know the difference between being in the zone and getting into a 'meta' state, which can derail your groove and prevent you from doing something well.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/write-python-function-for-blog-previous-next-arrows/">Write Python Function for Blog Previous Next Arrows</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a Python function to create blog navigation arrows. It takes the index position and length of a sequence, as well as a list of tuples containing hrefs and titles, and returns HTML for the prev/next arrows. This is now live on my category pages and I'm ready to add it to my Jekyll `_posts` pages too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-python-packaging-for-seo-deliverable/">Planning Python Packaging for SEO Deliverable</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I am starting a new project that requires the use of a traditional Python project structure, as well as AI-assistance and testing to ensure it works properly. I am conducting a study to determine the most important traffic and keywords for my business, and I am creating a deliverable-making deliverable with Python code to output Excel files, PDFs, and decks. All that tedious housekeeping work I'm delegating to AI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-zero-windows-to-linux-in-8-steps/">From Zero (Windows) to Linux In 8 Steps</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a series of videos to help people transition from Windows to Linux, covering topics such as uninstalling OneDrive, unpinning the taskbar, changing settings and personalization, turning off notifications and weather, and more. Plus, I'll show you what installing Linux on a Windows 10 computer looks like. Click through to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-into-the-flow-or-the-zone/">Getting Into The Flow Or The Zone</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>For the past 15 years, I've been struggling to get into the flow while working in a cubicle. But thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown, I've been able to re-achieve this state of productivity and focus -- just like in the Disney Pixar movie Soul. Working from home has allowed me to block out distractions and become more productive, and I'm exploring the concept of "feeding the love-worthiness of things". Read my blog post to learn more about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-your-daily-vim-exercise/">Get Your Daily vim Exercise</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning to express myself fluently in English, use Linux, Python, vim, and git, and focus on joy-filled habits. I'm also recognizing the importance of maintenance and organization to achieve flow, but understand the difficulty of developing habits in a constantly changing environment. I'm exploring the luxuries of static environments, like properties and inheritances, and how they can help with habit formation.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/game/">Game</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/education/">Education</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>