<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rid-yourself-of-imposter-syndrome-and-start-living-your-best-life/">Rid Yourself of Imposter Syndrome and Start Living Your Best Life</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I never really became an entrepreneur, but I do use their tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git to build my projects and occasionally consider Kickstarting campaign. I no longer suffer from imposter syndrome, as I have learned that I am good enough and can be proud of my work. I now show others that it is possible to follow their dreams and make a difference, without being an assholepreneur. LPvg gives me the tools I need to build and stay ahead of the curve. Join me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-the-day-discussing-the-future-with-bard/">Planning The Day & Discussing The Future With Bard</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm spending Good Friday working on my increasingly YAML-based blogging system. I'm exploring ways to make the index page more interesting and discussing with Bard about ways it collaborates with other LLMs. I'm also considering a nomadic lifestyle and need to make sure I'm prepared to use my Linux, Python, vim, and git skills to make money on the road, as well as ways to help Mike Levin kick-off a simplification movement in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/general-artificial-intelligence-nas-business-plan/">General Artificial Intelligence NAS Business Plan</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As part of the GAIA NAS team, I am developing a storage device that combines storage solutions and general artificial intelligence capabilities to improve human well-being. GAIA NAS will offer users a reliable, secure, and scalable storage solution, as well as the ability to learn from data, perform tasks, and interact with users in natural ways. With GAIA NAS, I can access my data from anywhere, share it with anyone, back it up automatically, and stream media files seamlessly.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/exploring-ai-s-opinion-of-hottest-tech-fields/">Exploring AI's Opinion of Hottest Tech Fields</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>I asked ChatGPTL what the top five tech specialties following Linux were that would give me the most value to employers. ChatGPTL responded with a list of five highly sought-after and well-paying skills: IT Automation, AI & Machine Learning, Quantum Computing, Connected Technologies, and Fintech. Read my blog post to learn more about these skills and how to determine which ones are right for you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/back-hurts-but-maintain-your-indomitable-spirit/">Back Hurts, But Maintain Your Indomitable Spirit</a> (Mon Feb 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting out to make a positive difference in my life and the lives of others today. My goals for the day include completing paperwork for my upcoming job, creating a new website, and organizing my home. I'm also taking care of my leopard gecko and staying engaged. My motivation is to make sure my child has a good experience in life and to help others feel good about life. I'm starting with the living room to make it a special place for my family.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-need-a-personal-server-in-your-life-the-time-is-nigh/">You Need a Personal Server In Your Life & The Time is Nigh</a> (Thu Oct 27, 2022)
<br/>I discovered that I could use my NAS as an application server, and with the help of Linux containers, I could transfer my laptop simulations to a home cloud without any fees. I was able to condition myself to go the direction I wanted to go and reach my goals, and mastering generic Linux was key for my long-term success. Read my blog post to learn how I did it and create your own personal server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/studies-on-the-effect-of-negativity/">Studies On The Effect Of Negativity</a> (Thu Apr 21, 2022)
<br/>As a Harvard University researcher, I recently completed a 25-year study that concluded that the people around us have a major impact on our success - up to 95%! I invite you to read more about my findings and how they can help you reach your goals.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/future/">Future</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/lpvg/">LPvg</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>