<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/being-in-the-zone-vs-thinking-about-being-in-the-zone/">Being In The Zone vs. Thinking About Being In The Zone</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently had an interesting discussion with my kid about the importance of being in the zone and not thinking about being in the zone. We discussed how it's important to know the difference between being in the zone and getting into a 'meta' state, which can derail your groove and prevent you from doing something well.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/back-hurts-but-maintain-your-indomitable-spirit/">Back Hurts, But Maintain Your Indomitable Spirit</a> (Mon Feb 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm setting out to make a positive difference in my life and the lives of others today. My goals for the day include completing paperwork for my upcoming job, creating a new website, and organizing my home. I'm also taking care of my leopard gecko and staying engaged. My motivation is to make sure my child has a good experience in life and to help others feel good about life. I'm starting with the living room to make it a special place for my family.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxdwin-is-now-the-drinkme-jupyterlab-linux-install-script/">LXDWIN is now the DrinkMe JupyterLab Linux Install Script</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>I've rebranded my lxdwin repository to drinkme, and I'm starting a big data-pull project for work. I'm creating a repo folder so everyone can follow along and I'll make a video about it. Come join me and see how it all unfolds!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxdwin-and-the-day-job/">LXDWIN and The Day Job</a> (Tue Nov 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm feeling torn between my passion project LXDWIN and my day job. To make it more bearable, I'm using the latest LXDWIN instance to complete a task I'm not fond of. Join me as I try to balance my passion and my job in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/happy-birthday-adi/">Happy Birthday Adi!</a> (Mon Nov 07, 2022)
<br/>Today is my birthday and I'm feeling motivated to keep pushing forward with my progress. Celebrating five years of employment, I'm ready to take on the next task - resolving an unexpected issue with my table-joins. Join me as I explore how to ensure my search volumes don't get lost in the process.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plot-the-awakening-rig-for-youtube-success/">Plot The Awakening / Rig For YouTube Success</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking steps to fight chaos and increase my focus by switching apps with the taskbar, deleting everything from my start menu, hiding all alerts, and turning off my clock. In this series of quick videos, I'll be teaching viewers how to make the command line interface (CLI) their new home, starting with the best modern habits for focus and productivity. Additionally, I'll be discussing the mind control battle between Apple, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-into-the-flow-or-the-zone/">Getting Into The Flow Or The Zone</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>For the past 15 years, I've been struggling to get into the flow while working in a cubicle. But thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown, I've been able to re-achieve this state of productivity and focus -- just like in the Disney Pixar movie Soul. Working from home has allowed me to block out distractions and become more productive, and I'm exploring the concept of "feeding the love-worthiness of things". Read my blog post to learn more about my journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/google photos/">Google Photos</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/change/">Changes</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>