<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-error-invalidrequesterror-this-model-s-maximum-context-length-is-4097-tokens/">openai.error.InvalidRequestError: This model's maximum context length is 4097 tokens</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Learn how I used the OpenAI Codex API to optimize my articles for website navigation. I found `pip instal tiktoken` and code snippets to count tokens and chop back my input with rsplit to fit the maximum context length of 4097 tokens.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-an-advice-from-openai-field-to-my-journal/">Adding an Advice From OpenAI Field to my Journal</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a cyborg who is exploring the value of OpenAI, utilizing AI-assisted thought processes and hotkeys to turn the AI on and off. I'm testing a function to give advice from the OpenAI API and am using it to summarize blog posts into meta descriptions, headlines, and keywords, as well as suggest life improvements.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/more-standard-fields-more-useful-hotkeys-in-yamlesque-blogging-system/">More Standard Fields & More Useful Hotkeys in YAMLesque Blogging System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I changed the topics field to keywords in my blog posts and used a search/replace to make sure everything was up to date. To make sure my meta descriptions were accurate, I wrote a regex pattern for vim to search for lines beginning with description: and end with any character that is not sentence-ending punctuation. I created a macro to help me quickly search for and edit the AI-generated meta descriptions. Now I can easily make sure my blog posts have the best meta descriptions possible.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-on-adding-front-matter-support-to-journal-entries/">Planning on Adding Front Matter Support to Journal Entries</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I worked on a Content Gap Analysis project today and thought about adding Front Matter Support to my Journal Entries. I'm writing a program to parse a file, reconstruct it, and compare it to its source. I'm then transferring the logic into a python script and reversing the order of the posts in the live code to prevent bloat. I'm creating a new file - journal_ - to make this happen. Ready to take the first steps? Read my blog post to find out more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-ai-to-streamline-blogging-and-content-creation/">Using AI to Streamline Blogging and Content Creation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I'm using the OpenAI API to simplify my blogging and content creation process. I'm writing my daily work-journal in a single markdown file and using AI to generate article summaries, meta descriptions, subheads, and keywords. I'm now looking to use browser automation and Github Copilot's API to save money. I also want to publish my Tweets, an Instapaper project, and read Daniel Kahneman's book. So many projects more approachable!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-vs-kmeans-for-keyword-clustering/">OpenAI Vs. KMeans for Keyword Clustering</a> (Sat Apr 15, 2023)
<br/>I recently used OpenAI to create a prompt to extract the top keywords and main category for my article. Using my old keywords.db and topics.db files, I re-generated my Meta Descriptions and Keywords based on OpenAI prompts. I discovered that intelligence is a product, and I'm excited to share the results of my experiment with you!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/muscle-memory/">Muscle Memory</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/productivity/">Productivity</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>