<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/why-markdown-why-yaml-why-they-re-great-together/">Why Markdown? Why YAML? Why They're Great Together!</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss why I chose to use Markdown and YAML together for my 1-textfile-for-life system. I explain why Markdown is popular and why YAML is a great serialization format that is human-readable. I also discuss the benefits of using a static site generator like Jekyll and how YAMLchop can help with creating a 1000-page site from 1 file. Finally, I explore how to render the markdown.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-personal-seo-to-ai-via-foss-on-lpvg-transition-plan/">My Personal SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg Transition Plan</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>This blog post outlines a plan for transitioning from SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg. I will be familiarizing readers with Moz's products and teaching them how to use tools like Vim and JupyterLab to create a nomadic computing environment that is hardware and vendor independent. I will provide a prescribed, vetted, and proven process to become more technical and free of Google, Microsoft, and other paid services.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figure-out-why-vim-journaling-is-an-asset/">Figure Out Why vim Journaling is an Asset</a> (Mon Feb 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm passionate about free and open source software and determined to stay independent from big companies. Join me in my live interactive chat session to journal about tech and explore the possibilities of OpenAI's ChatGPT. I'm also advocating for the use of Linux and other FOSS tools to help developers stay free and independent. Come join me and learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-road-to-microsoft-semi-independence/">The Road to Microsoft Semi-Independence</a> (Tue Jan 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to promote Free and Open Source SEO Software and show people how to set up a server on their Windows 10 or 11 laptops. I'm encouraging people to use Linux as a standard feature on Windows 10 and 11 via the Windows Subsystem for Linux and to be aware of Microsoft's paid services. I'm suggesting using vim instead of VSCode, as it is an industry standard and not tied to a vendor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-are-we-not-adapting-to-new-realities/">When Are We Not Adapting to New Realities?</a> (Mon Dec 05, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm excited to read the last book in the ExForce SciFi series. I'm also working on a project and considering reusing the Pipulate library, using the DrinkMe Linux platform, or creating a modern Noah's Ark platform. I need to be aware of vendors trying to lure me into a dependency and alternatives to local Jupyter. Join me as I explore the options and decide which is best for my project.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/json/">JSON</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/operating-systems/">Operating Systems</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>