<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/gathering-all-category-logic-into-one-place/">Gathering All Category Logic into One Place</a> (Mon Apr 24, 2023)
<br/>I'm using AI, Linux, Python, vim & git to create a journal with entries written by me. I'm optimizing for search engines and testing Copilot to process my thoughts. I'm also writing code to create a description of the OpenAI category and using nltk and collections libraries to find the most common categories. I'm sharing my thoughts and experiences in this journal and making it available to the public.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vlogigng-from-bing-and-vim-to-youtube-and-github-pages/">Vlogigng from Bing and vim to YouTube and Github Pages</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>I've been blogging and vlogging since 2007, sharing my thoughts and ideas without worrying about editing or technical matters. I use YouTube and blogging to express myself and get feedback, and I don't edit my videos for views. I write and publish my work in vim, and use Bing ChatBot to format it in markdown. Join me on my journey and read my work to get insight into my ideas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-a-better-place-to-blog-than-twitter/">This is a better place to blog than Twitter</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As I explore different blogging platforms, I'm learning that true automation is an illusion. I'm looking for cheaper options with less tech liability, while still remembering the debt I owe computers after being stung twice. Join me on my journey to find the perfect blogging platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-tricks-why-the-walrus-fears-the-carpenter/">vim tricks: Why The Walrus Fears The Carpenter</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>I'm busy today getting organized, but I'm also doing a livecast with my morning thoughts. I've written a blog post about how Linux, Python, vim & git intersect, with a venn diagram to illustrate - come check it out!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/b2-or-not-b2-that-is-the-question/">:b2 or not :b2, That Is The Question</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my thoughts and ideas publicly using slicing & dicing, Github Pages, mlseo, and blogslicer for search engine optimization. I'm determined to gut my project Pipulate and make way for it now. Join me on this journey and read my blog post to learn more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/always-be-writing-though-language-is-full-of-lies/">Always Be Writing Though Language Is Full of Lies</a> (Thu Apr 21, 2022)
<br/>I understand why my brain wants to automate decisions so I can focus on more important matters like writing and vlogging. Writing and vlogging are both ways of encoding thoughts into words, and can help manifest ideas into reality. With practice, I can capture ideas and turn them into coherent thoughts. Learn how writing can be used to your advantage and improve your life in unexpected ways.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/cat/">Cats</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/static-site-generator/">Static Site Generator</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>