<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/netflix-binging-vs-microsoft-binging-gerunds-vs-adjectives/">Netflix Binging vs Microsoft Binging (Gerunds vs. Adjectives)</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>Confused about the difference between gerunds and adjectives that end in "-ing"? I asked Bing for help and was surprised to learn that gerunds are verbs that function as nouns, and adjectives are words that describe nouns. Bing also gave me the term for two words that are spelled identically but have different meanings based on context - homograph - and provided examples. We discussed how to differentiate between the words bing and binge.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-that-foss-seo-book/">Start That FOSS SEO Book</a> (Sun Jan 29, 2023)
<br/>On January 29, 2023, I committed to writing a FOSS SEO Book. I'm learning how to use Twitter to best resonate my message and build an audience. I've started the project on the URL https://twitter.com/miklevin/status/1619125800477020160 and I'm dedicated to seeing it through. Follow my journey and join the discussion!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/surviving-google-s-helpful-content-update-surviving-helpfulgeddon/">Surviving Google's Helpful Content Update (Surviving Helpfulgeddon)</a> (Mon Dec 12, 2022)
<br/>I recently tested out ChatGPT and was amazed by the results. With its help, I'm ready to start fresh and create a better site by looking at data from Google Analytics, Search Console, and others. I plan to focus on creating content that will help others learn Linux, Python, vim, and git, and will listen to feedback from my audience. Join me as I strive to differentiate my inner voice from the endless content deluge and make the most of SEO principles that still work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/make-lxdwin-much-about-vim/">Make LXDWIN much about vim</a> (Fri Nov 11, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm focusing on making LXDWIN more about vim. I'm measuring success by how many people keep a daily journal in vim and introduce others to the command-line interface. I'm creating content for different audiences and saving time by laying the groundwork for others and AI-systems to edit. I'm applying this approach to my day-job and looking forward to the coming exodus from Microsoft Windows. Come join me on this journey and see what the future of computing holds!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/livestreaming-question-answers-with-youtube-audience/">Livestreaming Question & Answers With YouTube Audience</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have been made obsolete by so many things, but I'm using the tools Microsoft is providing to stay relevant. In this video, I discuss how knowledge workers bring their minds and capabilities to their job, and how I use my own CMS called Skite to take notes and organize my work. I also share tips on avoiding vendor traps and obsolescence resistance, such as using Python dict API, Sqlite3, Django and Flask, and the Unix Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/boosting-youtube-watch-time-youtube-analytics/">Boosting YouTube Watch Time / YouTube Analytics</a> (Tue May 31, 2022)
<br/>As the last day of May approaches, I'm trying to figure out how to make extra money and boost my YouTube watch time and analytics. To do this, I need to understand my subject-matter, audience, and how to convey the love-worthiness of things. I'm also exploring the criss-crossing elements of success and how to teach a narcissist. Join me on my journey to figure out the answers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-home-folder-vs-linux-home-folder-under-wsl/">Windows Home Folder vs. Linux Home Folder Under WSL</a> (Wed Apr 13, 2022)
<br/>As an experienced user of tech-tools, I have established conventions for storing files in my local system and online. I use the "home" folder of the operating system as my starting point, and I'm also utilizing the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to access the Linux home folder. I'm currently considering what audience my writing should appeal to, and have identified two primary groups. Read my blog post to learn more about my strategies for organizing and using tech-tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/okay-i-m-finally-keeping-audiences-in-mind/">Okay, I'm Finally Keeping Audiences In Mind</a> (Thu Apr 7, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating journal entries for an audience, with the help of WhatsaMetaFor.io and the mlseo package. I'm using metaphors such as the 80/20 rule and rabbit hole evaluations to stay focused and productive. I recently took a risk and explored the nbdev rabbit hole, which led me to create a Github repository and a script to prepare my project for release. Join me on my journey and read my blog post to learn more!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/email/">Email</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/journaling/">Journaling</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>