<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/left-is-the-past-and-right-is-the-future-right-blog-arrows/">Left is The Past and Right is The Future, Right? (Blog Arrows)</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the beauty and logic of arrow navigation. It can take some finagling to get it right, but it's a great 80/20-rule solution. With a configurable option, I'm able to make it so that the 'past' is left, and the 'future' is right - perfect for website navigation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gathering-all-category-logic-into-one-place/">Gathering All Category Logic into One Place</a> (Mon Apr 24, 2023)
<br/>I'm using AI, Linux, Python, vim & git to create a journal with entries written by me. I'm optimizing for search engines and testing Copilot to process my thoughts. I'm also writing code to create a description of the OpenAI category and using nltk and collections libraries to find the most common categories. I'm sharing my thoughts and experiences in this journal and making it available to the public.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switching-from-wsl-to-lxd-containers-permanently/">Switching From WSL to LXD Containers Permanently</a> (Tue Sep 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big change to my workflow and switching from Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to LXD Containers on Windows. I've set up the mappings and added a command to my .bash_profile in WSL, and now I'm testing to make sure it's working. I'm hoping to move all my work over to the Container, and I've even figured out a trick to find the Windows home location. Come read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/share-folder-between-windows-wsl-linux-container-and-home-cloud/">Share Folder Between Windows, WSL Linux, Container and Home Cloud</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As an IT professional, I'm setting up a shared ~/data folder across four different locations: my laptop's main Windows system, a Linux system running under WSL2, an LXD Linux Container hosted under WSL2, and an LXD Container hosted on a separate machine. I'm mapping a network drive from my laptop's Windows system, mounting a drive from the Linux system, and adding a device to the LXD Linux Container. Follow my journey as I set up this complex shared folder</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-i-grew-a-backbone-story-of-the-samurai-mudskipper/">When I Grew a Backbone, Story of The Samurai Mudskipper</a> (Mon May 16, 2022)
<br/>Mike Levin, an old warrior, tells his child a story about the evolution of the backbone. He explains that the backbone developed over a long period of time, beginning with single-celled organisms and ending with the Cambrian Explosion. Mike then tells his child that he can grow a backbone and map out the life of a single being, starting with the present. With this story, Mike hopes to prepare his child for the predators of the future. Read this blog post to learn more about the evolution</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/draft/">Drafts</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/web/">Web</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>