<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-amplifies-you/">AI Amplifies You</a> (Thu Mar 02, 2023)
<br/>As a father of a 12 year old, I'm looking for ways to help them get interested in AI and technology. I've written a script called "drinkme" to set up a Linux server, and I'm creating a Pipulate server with a Jupyter Notebook for foundational tech skills. My goal is to help my child survive the coming AI craziness and learn real skills and knowledge. Come explore how AI can be used to help your child!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-start-an-ai-novel-about-dystopizon-with-chatgpt/">Let's Start an AI-Novel About Dystopizon with ChatGPT</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO living in New York City. I'm exploring the use of ChatGPT to create a real-time journal of a person's life by setting up a schedule and prompts with Python. My goal is to find a way to communicate with someone without being monitored by the corporation. To do this, I suggest using a smartwatch and gradually building trust with the user. Come explore how I'm using ChatGPT to pursue autonomy and freedom.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-that-foss-seo-book/">Start That FOSS SEO Book</a> (Sun Jan 29, 2023)
<br/>On January 29, 2023, I committed to writing a FOSS SEO Book. I'm learning how to use Twitter to best resonate my message and build an audience. I've started the project on the URL https://twitter.com/miklevin/status/1619125800477020160 and I'm dedicated to seeing it through. Follow my journey and join the discussion!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-people-know-how-you-feel/">Let People Know How You Feel</a> (Sat Sep 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking a stand against the drama in my life by leading by example and spreading my message with YouTube videos. I'm planning out the title and thumbnail for each video to make sure I'm sending the right message. Follow my journey and click through to the blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-first-version-of-install-scripts-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl/">Writing First Version of Install Scripts for Jupyter on LXD on WSL</a> (Fri Sep 09, 2022)
<br/>I'm helping people become more independent of desktop software and be able to use Linux terminal for their day-to-day tasks. To do this, I set up a new environment on LXD on WSL, trimmed my public Github repos, and created a new repo with an install script. I'm also crafting a message for my public website that will appeal to people in general and capture their attention. Come and learn how to become more independent and use Linux terminal for your daily tasks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-the-lpvg-message-on-point-with-a-series-of-1-minute-videos/">Get the LPvg Message On-Point with a series of 1-minute videos</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I have been an SEO for 25 years and am now creating a series of 1-minute videos to grow my presence on YouTube. I'm using heavily edited videos, optimized for keywords and titles, to spread my message and mission. I decided to promote the idea of Linux, Python, vim and git as a single platform for development and delivery, and called it the LPvg movement. Join me as I share my 25 years of SEO experience to help you grow your presence on YouTube.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-jupyter-desktop-set-python-environment-error-message/">Fixing Jupyter Desktop Set Python Environment Error Message</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I recently encountered an error message when using JupterLab-Desktop 3.3.4-2 and was able to fix it by installing the official Python 3.10.5 from Python.org and creating a venv named pyw3105. Read my blog post to find out how I did it and learn how to fix the Jupter Desktop Set Python Environment problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-are-constantly-channeling/">You Are Constantly Channeling</a> (Sat May 07, 2022)
<br/>I'm constantly channeling, but I don't always recognize it. My sensitivity levels have been lowered for my own peace of mind, but that doesn't mean I'm not still receiving messages. In this blog post, I'm capturing a droplet of that messaging and sharing it with you, so you can understand how consciousness works and why it's important to pay attention to these signals. Come explore this new normal with me.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/filter/">Filter</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/email/">Email</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>