<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/nbdev-makes-py-file-extractions-from-notebooks/">nbdev Makes .py-file Extractions From Notebooks</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to master Google Photos through the API. To do this, I'm introducing nbdev2 and using Linux mounts to synchronize my WSL Linux ~/data directory on my Windows laptop with my ~/data directory on the NAS LXD server. As a member of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), I'm proud to be part of an organization that promotes excellence in scientific research and works to advance science for the betterment of humanity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-lxd-let-us-run-generic-linux-server-build-scripts-without-docker/">WSL & LXD Let Us Run Generic Linux Server-Build Scripts Without Docker</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>As a user, I prefer LXD from Canonical over Docker for its ease of installation without a complex API. Additionally, Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) provides a container system that can be used to create "server build scripts" to install a Linux server on Windows 10 or 11. With this, I can have a Linux server running in the background on my laptop. Read more to learn how to set up your own Linux server on Windows.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-linux-graphics-and-systemd-support-takes-priority-over-lxd/">WSL Linux Graphics and Systemd Support Takes Priority Over LXD</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm MikleVin and I recently created a new repository to prioritize getting Linux graphics and SYSTEMD working over LXD Linux Containers in the Windows Subsystem for Linux. Check out my repository 'drinkme' at https://github.com/miklevin/drinkme and stay tuned for my upcoming video to explain these changes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/permission-denied-publickey-fatal-could-not-read-from-remote-repository/">Permission denied publickey fatal Could not read from remote repository</a> (Fri Nov 04, 2022)
<br/>I encountered a problem when trying to git clone a repository from an LXD Linux Container running on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). After discovering the container was running in unprivileged mode, I changed it to privileged mode with the lxc config command and rebooted. This fixed the file permissions issue and allowed me to successfully git clone the repository. Read more about my experience and how I solved the problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-need-a-personal-server-in-your-life-the-time-is-nigh/">You Need a Personal Server In Your Life & The Time is Nigh</a> (Thu Oct 27, 2022)
<br/>I discovered that I could use my NAS as an application server, and with the help of Linux containers, I could transfer my laptop simulations to a home cloud without any fees. I was able to condition myself to go the direction I wanted to go and reach my goals, and mastering generic Linux was key for my long-term success. Read my blog post to learn how I did it and create your own personal server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-automated-script-on-nas-24x7-under-lxd-container/">Running Automated Script on NAS 24x7 Under LXD Container</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm documenting my journey of learning about Container Station and LXD, and how I successfully set up a long-running script in a Linux Container on my QNAP NAS. I've already created two YouTube videos to document the process, and now I'm working on changing the script into a Python one and making it do something to remind me of something daily. Follow my journey and learn how to set up your own Linux Container!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-my-local-24x7-place-to-run-code/">Getting My Local 24x7 Place to Run Code</a> (Mon Oct 24, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking a big step towards becoming a data jockey who isn't dependent on vendors or disrupted by changes in the industry - setting up an LXD instance on my NAS. I'm already halfway to my goal, having developed the habit of writing a daily journal in vim. Click through to read more about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bundle-an-lxd-linux-container-for-pyppeteer-and-playwright-automation/">Bundle an LXD Linux Container for Pyppeteer and Playwright Automation</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a public repository to limit my dependencies and use ohawf for Google OAuth2 authentication. I'm using the LXD 2 WSL project and Chrome automation with Selenium and NodeJS Puppeteer and Pyppeteer libraries to control Google Chrome or Chromium. Join me as I explore the possibilities of this project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/harmonizing-a-windows-side-python-script-with-a-linux-side-python-script/">Harmonizing a Windows-side Python Script with a Linux-side Python Script</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>I recently completed a project on JupyterLab, LXD, and WSL that required 60K queries and the use of a VPN and Windows desktop client. To make the process easier, I created a Python-side script to check for the existence of a file. Read my blog post to find out how I tackled this complex project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-chrome-for-linux-under-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Google Chrome for Linux Under LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Wed Sep 21, 2022)
<br/>I succeeded in getting Google Chrome up and running on my Linux system using LXD on WSL on Windows. I followed several steps to make sure the configuration settings would survive between reinstalls, and I'm thrilled to be able to launch it with google-chrome. After some hard work, I'm finally able to enjoy the fruits of my labor!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/created-windows-shortcut-to-start-linux-jupyter-on-lxd/">Created Windows Shortcut To Start Linux Jupyter on LXD</a> (Tue Sep 20, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explains how I created a Windows Shortcut (LXD.lnk) to start a Jupyter server on WSL, getting around API limitations and ensuring the command-line parameters of WSL and LXD work properly. With this shortcut, I can easily visit http://localhost:8888 and start the Jupyter server. Learn how I did it in this post!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/install-script-and-start-script-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl-on-windows/">Install Script and Start Script for Jupyter on LXD on WSL on Windows</a> (Fri Sep 16, 2022)
<br/>I've created a script that enables Jupyter to run on LXD on WSL on Windows. I've included an install script for the desktop, a start script for when the system reboots, and some other commands to start Jupyter in the background. I'm currently testing the installation process to make sure everything works properly. Come read my blog post to learn more about this exciting development!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/already-renamed-jupyme-to-wsl2lxd/">Already Renamed Jupyme to WSL2LXD</a> (Thu Sep 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently renamed my jupyme repository to wsl2lxd for improved searchability and memorability. After 15-20 years of being away from detail-oriented work, I'm back and better than ever. To further my skills, I leveraged my vim spell-checking, putting my en.utf-8.add file in my vim repo and activated an Ubuntu 20.04 under WSL to be separate from my LXD work.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-automated-install-script-for-lxd-jupyter-on-wsl/">Writing Automated Install Script for LXD & Jupyter on WSL</a> (Wed Sep 14, 2022)
<br/>This article describes my attempt to use JupyterLab under LXC and my progress on an automated install script for LXD and Jupyter on WSL. I'm also trying to simulate the tftp tricks I've done in Levinux and make my own bit optional graphics build. Read on to find out more about my journey and how it can help you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switching-from-wsl-to-lxd-containers-permanently/">Switching From WSL to LXD Containers Permanently</a> (Tue Sep 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big change to my workflow and switching from Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) to LXD Containers on Windows. I've set up the mappings and added a command to my .bash_profile in WSL, and now I'm testing to make sure it's working. I'm hoping to move all my work over to the Container, and I've even figured out a trick to find the Windows home location. Come read my blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-down-the-wsl-to-lxd-install-script-rabbit-hole/">Going Down the WSL to LXD Install Script Rabbit Hole</a> (Mon Sep 12, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project to create a bash install script that will set up a Jupyter server on a Windows machine. I'm writing the script, installing it from an Ubuntu 18.04 instance with LXD, creating a PowerShell script, and setting up a ~/repos folder and jupyme repo. Follow my journey as I build this project and learn along the way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-first-version-of-install-scripts-for-jupyter-on-lxd-on-wsl/">Writing First Version of Install Scripts for Jupyter on LXD on WSL</a> (Fri Sep 09, 2022)
<br/>I'm helping people become more independent of desktop software and be able to use Linux terminal for their day-to-day tasks. To do this, I set up a new environment on LXD on WSL, trimmed my public Github repos, and created a new repo with an install script. I'm also crafting a message for my public website that will appeal to people in general and capture their attention. Come and learn how to become more independent and use Linux terminal for your daily tasks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-jupyter-from-lxd-linux-container-on-windows/">Run Jupyter from LXD Linux Container on Windows</a> (Thu Sep 08, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to run Jupyter from an LXD Linux Container on Windows with me! I walk you through setting up an LXD container, adding a proxy device, logging into the container, adding a Python 3.10 virtual environment, creating a .bash_profile to activate the venv, installing Jupyter Lab, creating a script to run Jupyter in a way that the proxy can reach, and finally setting up a browser window to access Jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-ready-to-teach-installing-jupyter-right/">Getting Ready to Teach Installing Jupyter Right</a> (Wed Sep 07, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up Linux containers under WSL for testing purposes, using a magical incantation to install Jupyter. I'm running into issues with the container having a different internal IP than the one on Windows-side, so I'm researching commands like lxc config and jupyter server to bridge, NAT, and proxy. After setting a password on Jupyter, I was able to access the LX - come read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-linux-fights-obsolescence-and-lxd-is-key/">Why Linux Fights Obsolescence and LXD is Key</a> (Sat Aug 13, 2022)
<br/>I recently released a video on LXD being a sort of Noah's Ark and am working on strategies to make my videos more successful. I'm also working on projects for my day job and creating a 24x7 scheduler for a series of projects. I need to create nicknames, imagery, and visuals for the next iteration of Pipulate, but was cut off from PyPI because of their 2FA implementation. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey to success!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a> (Tue Aug 02, 2022)
<br/>In this blog post, I share how I tested Ubuntu 20.04 to see if I could easily install LXD. I found that Ubuntu 18.04 is the easier option, since it comes pre-installed with LXD and allows you to quickly get up and running. I also discuss my preference for local services over cloud resources, my advocacy for Linux and my blue-collar mechanic approach to tech literacy. Finally, I suggest JupyterLab-Desktop as a great way to learn Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/share-folder-between-windows-wsl-linux-container-and-home-cloud/">Share Folder Between Windows, WSL Linux, Container and Home Cloud</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As an IT professional, I'm setting up a shared ~/data folder across four different locations: my laptop's main Windows system, a Linux system running under WSL2, an LXD Linux Container hosted under WSL2, and an LXD Container hosted on a separate machine. I'm mapping a network drive from my laptop's Windows system, mounting a drive from the Linux system, and adding a device to the LXD Linux Container. Follow my journey as I set up this complex shared folder</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-gnu-screen-to-monitor-linux-system-daemon-service/">Using GNU Screen to Monitor Linux System Daemon Service</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to install Linux on Windows machines and get Linux services running under GNU Screen under an LXD Container. Discover the advantages of mastering generic Linux tech over web development and how to get started. I provide an example of a Python script to monitor a Linux system daemon service, and I walk you through the steps for installing Ubuntu 18.04, updating the file /etc/systemd/system/pulse.service, installing the program screen.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/setting-up-lxd-on-wsl2-with-systemd-enabled-ubuntu-18-04/">Setting Up LXD on WSL2 with systemd enabled Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Wed Jul 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my first LXD container on WSL2, using Ubuntu 18.04. I've used lxd init and lxc launch to get the container running, and added two locations from the WSL2 Linux host to the container. I'm now preparing to start experimenting and need to make sure I have the right tools installed. I'm also learning how to check if systemd is running, and getting everything ready for my first container.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-container-on-windows-wsl2-using-nas-smb-cifs-share/">LXD Container on Windows WSL2 Using NAS SMB/CIFS Share</a> (Mon Jul 25, 2022)
<br/>After struggling to set up a LXD container, I found the solution to my problem - mapping my NAS, .ssh folder, .gitconfig, and .vimrc files, and then running two commands from within the container. I also had to mount a Windows network share using the command 'sudo mount -t drvfs '\\EchidNAS\data' /mnt/data'. Now my LXD container is running as expected.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-into-lxd-wsl2-home-once-you-ve-moved-into-containers/">Moving Into LXD WSL2 ~/ "Home" Once You've Moved Into Containers</a> (Wed Jul 20, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explains how I am using Linux Containers (LXD) and WSL2 to create a comfortable and productive home, inspired by a YouTube video about a child prodigy. I'm detailing the steps I'm taking to mount my ~/github and ~/.ssh files to my container, codifying the steps to create a container, setting up a script to put a few files directly in ~/ including a .bash_profile, creating a "helpers" repo.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figuring-out-the-lxd-lxc-command-line-api/">Figuring Out The LXD/LXC Command-line API</a> (Sat Jun 25, 2022)
<br/>As a Linux user, I recently received a notice that my LXC container is unsupported. To learn the LXD/LXC command-line API, I discovered the command `lxc exec instance_name -- command` to execute commands in the LXD image, `lxc list` to view containers, `lxc start foo` to start one, and `lxc exec foo -- su --login ubuntu` to log.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-linux-containers-in-windows-linux-wsl2-but-what-is-home/">LXD Linux Containers in Windows Linux WSL2, But What Is Home?</a> (Fri Jun 24, 2022)
<br/>I explore the concept of home, referencing John Belushi and George Carlin to illustrate how labels are unnecessary. I compare the book The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the MGM movie, and discuss how my mother escaped her home life in the same year as the movie. I conclude that home is where you make it, and that I am continuously reinventing myself and encouraging my loved-ones to do the same. To create a new home, I'm developing a special git repo, creating a personal homepage.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-lxd-running-under-wsl2-on-windows-11-with-ubuntu-18-04/">Get LXD Running Under WSL2 on Windows 11 with Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>Learn how I got LXD running on Windows 11 with Ubuntu 18.04. I'll show you how to download the install.sh file, enable systemd, and test if it's running. Plus, I'll share how to fix failed attempts and start fresh. Get all the steps you need to get LXD up and running today.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/on-being-unstoppable-apis-lxd-lxd-under-wsl2-success/">On Being Unstoppable, APIs & LXD / LXD Under WSL2 (Success!)</a> (Thu Jun 23, 2022)
<br/>As someone who recently figured out how to log into a running LXD session from WSL2, I'm encouraging readers to not let anyone or anything stop them from advancing and learning. I use the example of Maxwell's Demon to explain how entropy can be overcome, and suggest using Linux Daemons to help us become Maxwell's Demon. I emphasize the importance of protecting the quality of information coming in and recognizing lies, as well as staying relentless in the pursuit of truth.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/livestreaming-question-answers-with-youtube-audience/">Livestreaming Question & Answers With YouTube Audience</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have been made obsolete by so many things, but I'm using the tools Microsoft is providing to stay relevant. In this video, I discuss how knowledge workers bring their minds and capabilities to their job, and how I use my own CMS called Skite to take notes and organize my work. I also share tips on avoiding vendor traps and obsolescence resistance, such as using Python dict API, Sqlite3, Django and Flask, and the Unix Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/qnap-container-station-lxc-end-of-support-notification-move-to-lxd/">Qnap Container Station Lxc End Of Support Notification, Move To Lxd</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>As a QNAP NAS user, I recently received a notification that LXC files are no longer supported and I must transition to LXD. This left me with the need to do some research, which I have documented in this blog post. Read on to learn more about my journey and the results of my research.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/throw-all-the-meat-veggies-into-the-stew-stir-the-blog-vlog/">Throw All The Meat & Veggies Into The Stew & Stir The Blog / Vlog</a> (Fri Jun 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently wrote a blog post about my experience with downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 so I could use LXD Linux containers on WSL Windows Subsystem for Linux. To make my workflow more efficient, I created a vim keyboard macro that generates the site I'm editing and added sites to sites.csv in the skite repo. Read my blog post to find out how this game-changing experience helped me streamline my workflow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-on-wsl2-is-a-few-months-ahead-of-its-time/">LXD on WSL2 is a Few Months Ahead Of Its Time</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>As an early adopter of LXD on WSL2, I've encountered confusion between LXD and Docker, downgraded tutorials to Ubuntu 18.04, confirmed LXD requires systemd, tested to see if it is running, and encountered network context issues. I have also found various approaches to solve them. Join me as I explore the challenges and solutions of LXD on WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reverting-wsl2-from-ubuntu-20-04-to-18-04-to-get-lxd-containers-working/">Reverting WSL2 From Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 To Get LXD Containers Working</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently explored the process of downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 under WSL2, as well as concepts such as LXD, venv, virtualenv, tmux, screen, and Python. I discussed the importance of good fixed-file-location habits, and how LXD is similar to venv/virtualenv in terms of packaging dependencies. I also compared Docker and LXD.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-updates-kb5014699-kb5013887-lxd-on-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04/">Windows Updates KB5014699 & KB5013887 & LXD on WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>After a long update process, I realized the Windows Updates I had downloaded weren't what I was looking for. I then tried to get LXD running under WSL2 on Ubuntu 20.04 but was unsuccessful. Switching to Ubuntu 18.04 allowed me to get LXD running, but now I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I make my next video out of the arts? Read my blog post to find out what I decide!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/failed-getting-lxd-working-under-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04-systemd-snap/">Failed Getting LXD Working Under WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04 systemd & snap</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I tried to get LXD running on WSL2, but couldn't make it work. Now I'm trying two things to make it work: installing the kernel headers and ZFS, and loading the module. I'll need to reload the module after each restart. Read my blog post to find out how this journey went!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/trying-again-to-get-lxd-working-under-microsoft-subsystem-for-linux/">Trying Again To Get LXD Working Under Microsoft Subsystem For Linux</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm determined to get LXD running under Microsoft Subsystem for Linux, and I'm not giving up! I've followed the official instructions and attempted to create a new storage pool, but I keep running into errors. To document my journey, I'm creating a new video - join me as I work to make this work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sun-microsystem-s-zettabyte-file-system-opensolaris-zfs-under-wsl2/">Sun Microsystem's Zettabyte File System (OpenSolaris ZFS) Under WSL2</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm installing OpenSolaris ZFS as part of a larger effort to have access to all the best developer stuff on my Linux WSL2 system. I ran into some errors while trying to get LXC and LXD running, but I was able to get everything working with the help of the 'wsl --help' command. I'm excited to have LXD running under WSL and am looking forward to the next livestream which will be about developing Linux system services with LXD.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/install-zfsutils-linux-to-prep-for-lxd-on-wsl/">Install ZFSUtils-Linux To Prep For LXD on WSL</a> (Mon May 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm on a mission to move my life forward, so I'm looking around the world to find the answers. Today, I'm focusing on LXD, a Linux container service, and I'm learning how to install ZFS Filesystem for Linux and the advantages of containers over virtual machines. Come along with me on my journey and read my blog post to see what I'm learning.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/youtube/">YouTube</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/jekyll/">Jekyll</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>