<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-error-invalidrequesterror-this-model-s-maximum-context-length-is-4097-tokens/">openai.error.InvalidRequestError: This model's maximum context length is 4097 tokens</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Learn how I used the OpenAI Codex API to optimize my articles for website navigation. I found `pip instal tiktoken` and code snippets to count tokens and chop back my input with rsplit to fit the maximum context length of 4097 tokens.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-an-advice-from-openai-field-to-my-journal/">Adding an Advice From OpenAI Field to my Journal</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I'm a cyborg who is exploring the value of OpenAI, utilizing AI-assisted thought processes and hotkeys to turn the AI on and off. I'm testing a function to give advice from the OpenAI API and am using it to summarize blog posts into meta descriptions, headlines, and keywords, as well as suggest life improvements.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/more-standard-fields-more-useful-hotkeys-in-yamlesque-blogging-system/">More Standard Fields & More Useful Hotkeys in YAMLesque Blogging System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I changed the topics field to keywords in my blog posts and used a search/replace to make sure everything was up to date. To make sure my meta descriptions were accurate, I wrote a regex pattern for vim to search for lines beginning with description: and end with any character that is not sentence-ending punctuation. I created a macro to help me quickly search for and edit the AI-generated meta descriptions. Now I can easily make sure my blog posts have the best meta descriptions possible.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-ai-to-streamline-blogging-and-content-creation/">Using AI to Streamline Blogging and Content Creation</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I'm using the OpenAI API to simplify my blogging and content creation process. I'm writing my daily work-journal in a single markdown file and using AI to generate article summaries, meta descriptions, subheads, and keywords. I'm now looking to use browser automation and Github Copilot's API to save money. I also want to publish my Tweets, an Instapaper project, and read Daniel Kahneman's book. So many projects more approachable!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switched-from-text-davinci-002-to-text-davinci-003/">Switched from text-davinci-002 to text-davinci-003</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I switched to text-davinci-003 to get better summaries, descriptions, headlines, and keywords from OpenAI, but it cost me more. I committed the data to a git repo so I could access it even if the databases got deleted. Going forward, I'll only process single posts as I explore AI capabilities. Join me as I explore the AI capabilities and the cost of processing data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-how-openai-couldn-t-format-keywords-consistently/">Fixing How OpenAI Couldn't Format Keywords Consistently</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I'm working to fix OpenAI keyword problems by writing code to recognize text that doesn't match the keyword format, handling commas inside quotes, and creating histograms. I've used this code to re-write the database of keywords for my blog, validate YAML in Python without Jekyll, and create category pages and navigation. I'm committed to developing a code that can consistently format keywords.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openai-vs-kmeans-for-keyword-clustering/">OpenAI Vs. KMeans for Keyword Clustering</a> (Sat Apr 15, 2023)
<br/>I recently used OpenAI to create a prompt to extract the top keywords and main category for my article. Using my old keywords.db and topics.db files, I re-generated my Meta Descriptions and Keywords based on OpenAI prompts. I discovered that intelligence is a product, and I'm excited to share the results of my experiment with you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/project-deteriorates-into-tools-discussion-again/">Project Deteriorates Into Tools Discussion Again</a> (Fri Apr 14, 2023)
<br/>I started a project in MOZ Pro by selecting a domain and downloading the CSV file. I then added 30_data.ipynb to the repo, using the apex domain as part of the filename. After that, I had a list of competitors and I could pull their keywords. I was tempted to try VSCode running as a Linux app on WSL, but the UI was too clunky. I share my experience in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-essay-on-modern-seo-a-call-to-pipulate/">An Essay on Modern SEO. A Call to Pipulate.</a> (Mon Dec 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring the effectiveness of SEO in the modern market, using data from Google Search Console and Google Analytics. I'm utilizing Python, Jupyter, and linear regression to analyze my website's keyword trends and create automated clarity-inducing reminders. By doing so, I can better understand what's driving people to my website and optimize it for success. Join me on my journey as I take a deep dive into the basics of SEO and website optimization.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-the-lpvg-message-on-point-with-a-series-of-1-minute-videos/">Get the LPvg Message On-Point with a series of 1-minute videos</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I have been an SEO for 25 years and am now creating a series of 1-minute videos to grow my presence on YouTube. I'm using heavily edited videos, optimized for keywords and titles, to spread my message and mission. I decided to promote the idea of Linux, Python, vim and git as a single platform for development and delivery, and called it the LPvg movement. Join me as I share my 25 years of SEO experience to help you grow your presence on YouTube.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-vim-macro-that-makes-markdown-image-code/">Imagining vim Macro That Makes Markdown Image Code</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>As an Information Age professional, I use vim as my text editor to create image tags from keyworded filenames for my web publishing system based on Github's Github Pages Jekyll static site generator. I use proper-case for the web accessible alt-text area, which is beneficial for both the visually impaired and search engines. With vim, I can easily name my files with keywords and tag my images for search with alt-text. Learn how I use vim to make web publishing easier.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/service/">Service</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/experiment/">Experiment</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>