<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/">Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clarified-linux-python-vim-git-mission-on-homepage/">Clarified Linux, Python, vim & git Mission on Homepage</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>I'm an expert in Linux, Python, vim & git and I'm promoting Literate Programming and its connection to Jupyter, Python and Markdown. On my homepage, I've collected my work and favorite articles to make my vision and message clear. Come check it out and see what I have to offer!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-creates-new-competitive-pressures-for-content-providers/">AI Creates New Competitive Pressures For Content Providers</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the intersection of deep learning and game theory, discussing how deep learning can be used to solve complex game theory problems and how game theory can be used to improve the performance of deep learning algorithms. I recently read a research paper on this topic and recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about this fascinating intersection.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-first-moz-programming-project-will-be-emailed-screenshots/">My First MOZ Programming Project Will Be Emailed Screenshots</a> (Thu Mar 09, 2023)
<br/>I'm offering a project to teach people how to do data tricks that can make them valuable to employers or customers. This involves taking a screenshot of a website and emailing it to the user daily, and building up a series of baby-steps to create a durable and interoperable automation platform. Learn how to become a valuable asset with my project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/predicting-the-best-worst-most-likely-things-to-expect-from-ai/">Predicting The Best & Worst Most Likely Things To Expect From AI</a> (Mon Mar 06, 2023)
<br/>I explore the potential of using decentralized distributed tech to give an advantage to the good guys, and how AI can be used for the greater good. I discuss the ethical and social challenges of pitting AIs in competition with each other, and provide five examples of possible headline-making scenarios. To create a positive perspective on the use of AI technology, I created a top 10 list of how it can improve life for everyone, from renewable energy solutions to enhancing healthcare delivery and education.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-a-better-place-to-blog-than-twitter/">This is a better place to blog than Twitter</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As I explore different blogging platforms, I'm learning that true automation is an illusion. I'm looking for cheaper options with less tech liability, while still remembering the debt I owe computers after being stung twice. Join me on my journey to find the perfect blogging platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-amplifies-you/">AI Amplifies You</a> (Thu Mar 02, 2023)
<br/>As a father of a 12 year old, I'm looking for ways to help them get interested in AI and technology. I've written a script called "drinkme" to set up a Linux server, and I'm creating a Pipulate server with a Jupyter Notebook for foundational tech skills. My goal is to help my child survive the coming AI craziness and learn real skills and knowledge. Come explore how AI can be used to help your child!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-bottom-turtle-is-microsoft-and-that-s-okay/">The Bottom Turtle is Microsoft, and That's Okay</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>As a developer, I recently discovered that Windows is now the best platform for development. Microsoft has embraced Linux and its associated technologies, offering the Ubuntu repository and the Windows Subsystem for Linux, which enables developers to access Linux commands and the command-line interface. With popular commands such as cd, ls, chmod, and chown, I'm able to do a lot without being a hardcore programmer. Read my blog to find out why I believe Windows is the best development platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/practicing-what-i-preach/">Practicing What I Preach</a> (Sat Oct 15, 2022)
<br/>I've been busy with work and family, but I'm recommitting to writing in my journal. I'm exploring the LXD Linux Container Jupyter platform, which has been challenging but rewarding, and Microsoft's NT system, which has enabled the creation of protection rings and running concurrent operating systems. I'm amazed at how Microsoft is transitioning into the future, and I'm reflecting on the fundamentals of object-oriented and concurrency that remain.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/internalizing-tools-through-eepigenetics/">Internalizing Tools Through Eepigenetics</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>This article reflects on my journey in life, discussing the concept of epigenetics and Mike Levin, a microbiologist who shares my name and is a hero of mine. I explore my experiences in life, including falling victim to shortcut-seekers and narcissists, and how I am learning to make sure I don't lose myself to someone else. I have embraced my environment by finding my tools, and have realized the importance of incorporating VSCode into my DNA. I discuss the power of text editors.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-install-rocks-your-world-with-linux-learn-linux-fast/">wsl --install Rocks Your World with Linux (Learn Linux Fast!)</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Discover how to install and learn Linux in under 10 minutes with the "wsl --install" command on Windows 11. I will teach you how to use a full-screen Linux terminal to run the vim text editor and keep a daily journal. Learn the basic commands and gain access to hundreds of thousands of free and open source software packages. Get an introduction to Ikigai, a script for a video to promote the command, and ways to promote the command on social media. Take the first step</li>
<li><a href="/blog/go-for-broke-connecting-the-dots/">Go For Broke Connecting The Dots</a> (Fri Jun 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using my YouTube channel to explore the mysteries of life and figure out how to create a better life for myself. I'm talking about money, expensive problems, building internal resources, game theory, symbols, and more. Join me on my journey as I connect the dots and tackle the big questions!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moved-whatsametafor-io-blog-content-here/">Moved WhatsaMetaFor.io Blog Content Here</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I've moved my blog to MikeLev.in, a better platform for hosting my blog. I'm also learning Jekyll and Liquid, two powerful tools that will give me more control over my site. Come check out my blog and see how I'm using them!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/google analytics/">Google Analytics</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/panda/">Pandas</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>