<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rendering-un-styled-jekyll-markdown-drafts-for-pasting-into-google-docs/">Rendering Un-Styled Jekyll Markdown Drafts for Pasting Into Google Docs</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>Render un-styled Jekyll Markdown drafts for pasting into Google Docs with this easy-to-implement technique. Learn how to use the `published: false` directive, the `yaml_generator` function, and a stripped-down template named `plain.html` to generate drafts that can be pasted into Google Docs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-web-scraper-with-bing-from-scratch/">Build Web Scraper With Bing From Scratch</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>This step-by-step guide shows you how to build a web scraper with Bing from scratch in Python, starting with a basic example of printing "Hello World" and building up to extracting the title tag with BeautifulSoup4. Learn how to collect all the links from a webpage, convert them from relative to absolute links, and store them in a persistent dictionary using SQLite. Discover how to compete with commercial web scraping products and get the same features for less.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-google-photos-api-to-generate-main-archive-favorite-media-lists/">Using Google Photos API to Generate Main, Archive & Favorite Media Lists</a> (Fri Feb 03, 2023)
<br/>I'm using Google Photos API to generate three databases - 'all', 'main', and 'favorites' - and an 'archive' database. I'm using Python functions to query the API, store the results, and create custom labeled tuples with a start date and end date. I'm also chunking the project into week-by-week chunks, making it easier to manage. This code provides a way to make the code clearer and easier to understand.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/where-to-begin-pickle-your-dicts/">Where to Begin? Pickle Your Dicts!</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post invites readers to explore the possibilities of data and tech skills, providing an example of how to create a Pipulate server from a Windows Linux instance. It also dives into the appeal of tool use, and how to create a Python dictionary object and store it in a SQLite database using the SqliteDict package. Join me as I explore the potential of data and tech skills and the tools available to make them work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-could-be-super-enabling-helping-you-code-at-all/">AI Could be Super-Enabling, Helping You Code At All</a> (Thu Jan 26, 2023)
<br/>As a coding novice, I used ChatGPT to learn how to code in Python and edit videos. With the help of ChatGPT, I was able to gain the superpower of coding in Python to help me with my project. I also used OpenAI API to submit JSONL data and extract data from HTML. To store the data, I chose to use a SQLite database and DNS to translate IPs. Finally, I virtualized Linux and used a RaspberryPi-based server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/much-starts-with-the-ability-to-create-and-use-local-caches/">Much Starts With the Ability To Create and Use Local Caches</a> (Thu Dec 01, 2022)
<br/>I have been exploring Microsoft's implementation of systemd under wsl and have had mixed results. To ensure self worth and independence, I suggest investing in free and open source software (FOSS) and using caches, such as a SQLite .db file, to ensure persistence. I have been exploring the use of local caches for short-term memory and for storing variables used in programs, and share my experiences to help others.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-seo-serps-python-pandas-semrush/">A Day In The Life of An SEO SERPs, Python Pandas & SEMRush</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm embarking on a scavenger hunt to find the code I used the last time I did this project. I'm using Python to extract information from a database file, transform it into a usable format, and export it as a CSV file and an Excel xlsx file. I'm also using regex and tldextract to extract the domain from the search results. Finally, I'm using a bulk keyword analysis tool and a pivot table to organize the data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/concurrent-web-crawling-in-python/">Concurrent Web Crawling in Python</a> (Mon Feb 21, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm celebrating President's Day by accomplishing a mission: creating an async Python function to return zipped input/output promises. I'm also working on handling a list of tuples as input and building a package called mlseo on PyPI. To top it off, I've completed a concurrent site crawler in Python that uses SQLite. Join me in celebrating President's Day with this amazing progress!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/headline/">Headlines</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/macro/">Macro</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>