<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/general-artificial-intelligence-nas-business-plan/">General Artificial Intelligence NAS Business Plan</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As part of the GAIA NAS team, I am developing a storage device that combines storage solutions and general artificial intelligence capabilities to improve human well-being. GAIA NAS will offer users a reliable, secure, and scalable storage solution, as well as the ability to learn from data, perform tasks, and interact with users in natural ways. With GAIA NAS, I can access my data from anywhere, share it with anyone, back it up automatically, and stream media files seamlessly.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-analytics-ga4-api-access-will-be-my-first-project-for-pipulate/">Google Analytics GA4 API Access Will Be My First Project for Pipulate</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to start my first project for Pipulate, which involves accessing the Google Analytics GA4 API. I'm taking a top-down and bottom-up approach to SEO, and I've named my repo GA4mageddon. I'm using the impending Google-induced panic about GA4 to create better examples and instructions for readers to entice them to click through to the blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-jupyter-from-lxd-linux-container-on-windows/">Run Jupyter from LXD Linux Container on Windows</a> (Thu Sep 08, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to run Jupyter from an LXD Linux Container on Windows with me! I walk you through setting up an LXD container, adding a proxy device, logging into the container, adding a Python 3.10 virtual environment, creating a .bash_profile to activate the venv, installing Jupyter Lab, creating a script to run Jupyter in a way that the proxy can reach, and finally setting up a browser window to access Jupyter.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="None">None</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/copy-paste/">Copy/Paste</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>