<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/copilot-disable-help/">Copilot: disable... Help!</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered that my keyboard is glitching out, and I suspect AI interference. I need to switch hardware, but I'm reminded that patience is key. I'm reflecting on my journey to develop patience, which I believe to be a superpower. Read my blog post to discover how I'm developing this superpower.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/portable-script-to-help-edit-many-files-at-once-with-python-venv-friendly-shebang/">Portable Script to Help Edit Many Files at Once with Python venv-friendly shebang!</a> (Wed Sep 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm making my program easier to use for editing all my journals across any machine. I'm using Python venv-friendly shebang to ensure portability and adding ASCII art to keep me informed. I'm going through the process of editing, pulling, editing, and pushing the repos. Come find out how I'm doing it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-updates-kb5014699-kb5013887-lxd-on-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04/">Windows Updates KB5014699 & KB5013887 & LXD on WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>After a long update process, I realized the Windows Updates I had downloaded weren't what I was looking for. I then tried to get LXD running under WSL2 on Ubuntu 20.04 but was unsuccessful. Switching to Ubuntu 18.04 allowed me to get LXD running, but now I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I make my next video out of the arts? Read my blog post to find out what I decide!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pushing-blogslicer-to-pypi-from-jupyter-notebook/">Pushing Blogslicer to PyPI (From Jupyter Notebook)</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I successfully created a pattern for releasing packages built in Jupyter Notebooks into PyPI, using nbdev from Fast.ai. I pushed my package, Blogslicer, to PyPI, but still have more work to do before I can add it to my blog release script. Read more to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/machine/">Machines</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/slug/">Slugs</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>