<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-ais-will-find-you-if-you-re-unique/">The AIs Will Find You If You're Unique</a> (Mon Feb 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm taking my Google Photos processing to the next level by creating a service to download and copy one month of photos at random. To do this, I'm using Python scripts, headless Linux Chrome automation, and the headlines import to generate a list of files to be archived. I'm also taking the Google Photos tutorial out of the practice folder and moving it to the actual gphotos repo. Follow my journey as I take my Google Photos processing to the next level!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/nbdev-makes-py-file-extractions-from-notebooks/">nbdev Makes .py-file Extractions From Notebooks</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to master Google Photos through the API. To do this, I'm introducing nbdev2 and using Linux mounts to synchronize my WSL Linux ~/data directory on my Windows laptop with my ~/data directory on the NAS LXD server. As a member of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), I'm proud to be part of an organization that promotes excellence in scientific research and works to advance science for the betterment of humanity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/expanding-my-google-suggest-jupyter-notebook-to-include-stop-words/">Expanding My Google Suggest Jupyter Notebook to Include Stop Words</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I recently moved my Google Photos project to a server running LXD Linux and am refining my Google Suggest probing to include stop words. I'm also exploring the idea of switching my project to Jupyter Notebook based locally. I'm using the same technique on my OhAwf repo and it's proving to be successful. Read more to find out how I'm making this transition and the success I'm having with it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cluster-keywords-from-google-suggest-api/">How To Cluster Keywords From Google Suggest API</a> (Sat Feb 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring all the amazing features Google Photos has to offer, from converting HEIC to JPG to downloading, editing videos, and more. To come up with SEO-friendly names for my project, I wrote code to cluster keywords into groups and created a dictionary mapping each keyword to its group. I also wrote a function to find the most common two-word combination for each group and mapped that to the group name, creating a csv file with the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-google-photos-organization-program/">Testing Google Photos Organization Program</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm testing a Google Photos organization system, uploading photos to my NAS, and setting up a home cloud to increase my storage capabilities. To get around certain API limitations, I'm using Microsoft Playwright browser automation on a headless LXD server. In this blog post, I discuss the impact of media on society and how it can be used to shape public opinion and create a more informed and connected society. Read more to find out my thoughts on this important topic.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/numbering-weeks-from-utc-zero-vs-your-birthday/">Numbering Weeks from UTC-Zero Vs. Your Birthday</a> (Wed Feb 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to decide the best way to break up my Google Photos querying project into chunks of time. Should I use weeks measured from Unix Timestamp or from my own birthday? I'm now considering writing my own code, as I'm losing faith in the code I was given from ChatGPT. Read more to find out how I'm tackling this project.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-road-to-microsoft-semi-independence/">The Road to Microsoft Semi-Independence</a> (Tue Jan 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to promote Free and Open Source SEO Software and show people how to set up a server on their Windows 10 or 11 laptops. I'm encouraging people to use Linux as a standard feature on Windows 10 and 11 via the Windows Subsystem for Linux and to be aware of Microsoft's paid services. I'm suggesting using vim instead of VSCode, as it is an industry standard and not tied to a vendor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/thinking-through-python-google-photos-sorter/">Thinking Through Python Google Photos Sorter</a> (Tue Jan 17, 2023)
<br/>I'm creating processes to gradually move images from Google Photos to a home cloud NAS in a fun and addicting way. I'm using Python sets to identify and remove duplicates, chunking data to create indexed sequential namedtuples for each week of my life up to 100 years, and creating thumbnail folders when I'm ready.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/skill/">Skills</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/web development/">Web Development</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>