<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/ctrl-s-and-ctrl-space-amazingly-available-for-custom-vim-neovim-keyboard-shortcuts/">Ctrl+S and Ctrl+Space Amazingly Available For Custom vim/NeoVim Keyboard Shortcuts</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Discover how I maximize my productivity with my new journaling approach, allowing myself to edit multiple files with ease without getting lost in a sea of tabs. Utilize the astoundingly available `Ctrl+S` and `Ctrl+Space` keyboard shortcuts to quickly cycle through buffers and access important resources instantly. Get lost in a sea of open screens and windows no more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/imagining-the-linux-nomadic-movement-with-the-new-bing/">Imagining The Linux Nomadic Movement With The New Bing</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a developer who values speed, productivity and ergonomics, I have been using Vim since 1976 and it has proven to be a reliable and robust tool. With a large and active community that provides support, documentation and plugins for various purposes, Vim offers advantages over VSCode, such as rapid key sequences, not requiring arrow keys, and performing complex operations with minimal keystrokes. Join me in the Linux nomadic movement.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-namedtuple-for-each-week-you-ve-been-alive/">A NamedTuple For Each Week You've Been Alive</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the 80/20 rule, low empathy, and how the way people interact with machines is changing. I'm a 52 year old man looking for a balance between order and chaos, and I'm using JupyterLab and Python to code. I'm also suggesting journaling and tracking progress with weeks to get the most out of the experience. Join me as I explore the challenges of staying productive and organized as I age.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plot-the-awakening-rig-for-youtube-success/">Plot The Awakening / Rig For YouTube Success</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking steps to fight chaos and increase my focus by switching apps with the taskbar, deleting everything from my start menu, hiding all alerts, and turning off my clock. In this series of quick videos, I'll be teaching viewers how to make the command line interface (CLI) their new home, starting with the best modern habits for focus and productivity. Additionally, I'll be discussing the mind control battle between Apple, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-into-the-flow-or-the-zone/">Getting Into The Flow Or The Zone</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>For the past 15 years, I've been struggling to get into the flow while working in a cubicle. But thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown, I've been able to re-achieve this state of productivity and focus -- just like in the Disney Pixar movie Soul. Working from home has allowed me to block out distractions and become more productive, and I'm exploring the concept of "feeding the love-worthiness of things". Read my blog post to learn more about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/">Teaching My Wife vim</a> (Sun Apr 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm teaching my wife vim, which I use to copy and paste text files and back up code to Github. I've been using vim for decades, and I'm excited to help my wife learn this timeless technology. I overcame my own negative experience with vim to understand its importance, and I'm enjoying the meaningful experience of helping my wife learn it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/flow/">Flow</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/meta descriptions/">Meta Descriptions</a></div></div>