<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/levinux-pipulate-yamlesque/">Levinux, Pipulate & YAMLesque</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I'm striving for financial independence and using the 80/20-rule and OpenAI's Codex AI to create a plan of action to help me reach my goals. I'm breaking out of my old habits and focusing on inventing and building in the real and text-based world with Linux, Python, vim & git. I'm taking baby-steps to create a life of abundance and order.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/we-power-our-way-through-this-material-life-world/">We Power Our Way Through This Material Life & World</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>As an individual, I believe it's important to make the most of our lives and pursue our passions. We should be mindful of becoming overly reliant on AI and vendor services, and instead take joy in the economic product that comes from doing what we love and engaging with the material world. Click through to learn more about how to make the most of your life!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-a-tiktok-script/">Working on a TikTok Script</a> (Thu Sep 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm an infotech carpenter teaching people how to become an Information Age Samurai by mastering the right skillset and toolset. I'm providing a script to install Jupyter on Linux, and a guide to help people navigate the dense infotech forest. I'm also sharing my experience to help others find their way in life, and I'm learning to plan my recovery from distractions as a sort of performance-art.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/get-your-daily-vim-exercise/">Get Your Daily vim Exercise</a> (Fri Apr 15, 2022)
<br/>I'm learning to express myself fluently in English, use Linux, Python, vim, and git, and focus on joy-filled habits. I'm also recognizing the importance of maintenance and organization to achieve flow, but understand the difficulty of developing habits in a constantly changing environment. I'm exploring the luxuries of static environments, like properties and inheritances, and how they can help with habit formation.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/setting/">Settings</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/unique/">Unique</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>