<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-a-new-blogging-system-create-a-title-field-under-date-to-release/">Starting a New Blogging System (create a title field under date to release)</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new journal entry system with the 80-long hyphen as a blog-slicer token and place-holder for the Liquid template system. I'm using Jekyll, an open source static site generator, and a macro system to ensure reverse-chronological entries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sharpening-my-prev-next-arrows/">Sharpening My Prev/Next Arrows</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm proud of the effort I put into creating the formatting of the previous/next arrows on my website. I used style.scss, post.html, a non-breaking-space trick, and flexbox wrangling to make them look elegant. I'm still learning how to neutralize and escape Jekyll blog post Liquid directives, but I'm excited to share the results of my work. Click to read more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moved-whatsametafor-io-blog-content-here/">Moved WhatsaMetaFor.io Blog Content Here</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I've moved my blog to MikeLev.in, a better platform for hosting my blog. I'm also learning Jekyll and Liquid, two powerful tools that will give me more control over my site. Come check out my blog and see how I'm using them!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/deliverable/">Deliverable</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/value/">Value</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>