<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-python-packaging-for-seo-deliverable/">Planning Python Packaging for SEO Deliverable</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I am starting a new project that requires the use of a traditional Python project structure, as well as AI-assistance and testing to ensure it works properly. I am conducting a study to determine the most important traffic and keywords for my business, and I am creating a deliverable-making deliverable with Python code to output Excel files, PDFs, and decks. All that tedious housekeeping work I'm delegating to AI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/consulting-with-the-new-bing-on-how-to-go-viral/">Consulting With The New Bing On How to Go Viral</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>This blog post provides advice on how to create content that will go viral, from using visuals and interactive content to understanding the target audience. I researched six articles on the topic, covering topics such as quality content, platform optimization, and evoking high-arousal emotions. This post is a great resource for anyone looking to create content that will have an impact.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fetching-saving-html-from-list-of-urls-using-python/">Fetching & Saving HTML From List of URLs Using Python</a> (Tue Feb 21, 2023)
<br/>As I prepare to start my new job, I'm taking care of all the necessary tasks, including ordering a standing desk and organizing my apartment. I also attended a group meeting with my employer and got all the onboarding paperwork done. To help out a friend, I'm creating a program to scrape data from a website and store it in an Excel file, using Python and Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-pivot-of-big-data-pull/">Planning a Pivot of Big Data Pull</a> (Thu Dec 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm organizing data from a browser automation job using Microsoft Playwright and Python. To practice "Best Foot Forward" SEO, I'm using Google Sheets to create sparklines with linear regression lines. I'm also using pivot tables and group by functions to summarize and analyze the data in Excel and Google Sheets. I'll deliver the data transforms by tonight, and the choice between the two depends on my needs and the complexity of the data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openpyxl-for-creating-a-formatted-excel-file-from-python/">OpenPyXL for creating a formatted Excel file from Python</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I used openpyxl and pandas to create a formatted Excel file from Python. I stepped through each item in a loop and outputted a different tab into the spreadsheet, and then finished the task by deleting. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-seo-serps-python-pandas-semrush/">A Day In The Life of An SEO SERPs, Python Pandas & SEMRush</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm embarking on a scavenger hunt to find the code I used the last time I did this project. I'm using Python to extract information from a database file, transform it into a usable format, and export it as a CSV file and an Excel xlsx file. I'm also using regex and tldextract to extract the domain from the search results. Finally, I'm using a bulk keyword analysis tool and a pivot table to organize the data.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/jupyter-notebooks/">Jupyter Notebooks</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/child/">Child</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>