<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/upgrading-jupyterlab-pip-installs/">Upgrading JupyterLab pip installs</a> (Tue May 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a way to upgrade my pip installs on JupyterLab and Jupyter Notebooks. I found a solution! I cloned mlseo from Github and used 10_requirements.ipynb. To learn more, I watched a video tutorial on YouTube. Check out my blog post to get the full scoop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/b2-or-not-b2-that-is-the-question/">:b2 or not :b2, That Is The Question</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my thoughts and ideas publicly using slicing & dicing, Github Pages, mlseo, and blogslicer for search engine optimization. I'm determined to gut my project Pipulate and make way for it now. Join me on this journey and read my blog post to learn more.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bash-script-loading-external-files/">Bash Script Loading External Files</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I've simplified my release system and renamed it blast.sh. This script helps me delete old files, slice blogs, update my vimrc, journal, and mlseo. After that, it publishes my 15 domains for SEO purposes and I'm done! Join me as I dive into the details of this helpful script.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/okay-i-m-finally-keeping-audiences-in-mind/">Okay, I'm Finally Keeping Audiences In Mind</a> (Thu Apr 7, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating journal entries for an audience, with the help of WhatsaMetaFor.io and the mlseo package. I'm using metaphors such as the 80/20 rule and rabbit hole evaluations to stay focused and productive. I recently took a risk and explored the nbdev rabbit hole, which led me to create a Github repository and a script to prepare my project for release. Join me on my journey and read my blog post to learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/concurrent-web-crawling-in-python/">Concurrent Web Crawling in Python</a> (Mon Feb 21, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm celebrating President's Day by accomplishing a mission: creating an async Python function to return zipped input/output promises. I'm also working on handling a list of tuples as input and building a package called mlseo on PyPI. To top it off, I've completed a concurrent site crawler in Python that uses SQLite. Join me in celebrating President's Day with this amazing progress!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-as-performance-art/">Journaling As Performance Art</a> (Fri Feb 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a performance art piece that auto-publishes my journal entries on Github.io. I'm also building a get_responses function that takes a list of URLs or tuples and returns a list of tuples. I'm testing it by providing it with a list of URLs and a function and checking the output. My goal is to get responses from a list of URLs and assign them either 'foo' or 'bar', then return them as a list. For example, when</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-mlseo-pip-installable/">Making mlseo pip installable</a> (Wed Feb 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm using mlseo as a pip installable module to get the process of making packages into my fingers. I'm creating a package called mlseo which will include my latest techniques for pulling data from Google Analytics and Search Console. I'm setting up the settings.ini file and extracting the packages, and I'm following the nbdev instructions to install and create a Github personal access token. Come follow my journey and learn how to set up your own mlseo package!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/virtualenv/">Virtualenv</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/game/">Game</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>