<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ever-have-to-combine-csvs-do-it-better-with-python-pandas/">Ever Have to Combine CSVs? Do It Better With Python Pandas!</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>Using the Python Pandas Library to better manipulate row and column data, I recently conducted research on a variety of websites to compare engagement rates. My findings included 15 visitors and a 1% engagement rate for Netflix.com, and 20 visitors and a 2% engagement rate for IMDB.com. Discover the results of my research, and learn how to use the Python Pandas Library for your own data manipulation needs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-pandas-and-python-s-pathlib-to-load-multiple-csv-files-for-data-analysis/">How to Use Pandas and Python's Pathlib to Load Multiple CSV Files for Data Analysis</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I released a video and tweeted the link in time for the live premiere, and I created a program called ChopChop to help me chop my journal.md file. I used the .glob() method of a pathlib Path object to get a list of all the files in a directory, which I then used to "seed" my data project. Finally, I used pandas dataframes to turn the list of file paths into something I can expand outwards from. Check out my blog.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/keyword-clustering-my-blog-posts-with-kmeans/">Keyword Clustering My Blog Posts With KMeans</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>As a computer user, I appreciate the consistency of the user interface, which has remained largely unchanged since the 1960s. I'm grateful for the tools that have the perfect balance of usability and staying-power, which improve gradually and don't require me to press the reset button on my skills and career. This blog post explores how to use KMeans clustering to group 500 articles into 10 clusters based on their keyword metadata, extract keywords from each article, and identify topics in the posts.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-critical-juncture-with-ai-my-next-steps/">The Critical Juncture With AI & My Next Steps</a> (Mon Jan 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of Artificial Intelligence and taking action to stay on top of the wave. To ensure ethical use of my content, I have written a Machine Learning General License (MLGL) and included it on my website. I'm working hard to create unique content for ChatGPT and Pipulate.com/software, and am experimenting with tokenizing, keyword clustering, and quickly looking up response objects.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-place-to-put-things/">A Place to Put Things</a> (Thu Dec 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking you on a journey to become a modern tech literate person. Learn the basics of PyTorch, group keywords, and build robots. Familiarize yourself with Linux, Git, and Vim. Set up a GitLab repo and gain the freedom that comes with it. Join me as I guide you through this tech literacy adventure!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-python-pandas-iloc-interface-explained-for-the-befuddled/">The Python Pandas .iloc Interface Explained For The Befuddled</a> (Fri Dec 16, 2022)
<br/>I'm sharing my knowledge of how to use Pandas, a data manipulation tool, to select columns from a DataFrame by using its name or the .loc or .iloc interfaces. I'll explain how to use slices to specify row and column ranges, how to use a colon to select all rows, and why the Pandas API has chosen to drop the use of square-brackets for slices.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/combine-csv-files-with-python-pandas/">Combine CSV Files with Python Pandas</a> (Thu Dec 01, 2022)
<br/>Create a new repo in DrinkMe Linux called 'combinecsvfiles' for processing CSVs. Extract information from filenames and add it to rows of the CSV using Python Pandas. Easily stack CSV dataframes in a Python list using 'pd.concat(lot)'. Discover how easy it is to combine CSVs into a single file - just use the code 'df = pd.concat(lot)'!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/joining-data-between-spreadsheet-tabs-better-than-vlookup/">Joining Data Between Spreadsheet Tabs Better Than VLookup</a> (Fri Nov 04, 2022)
<br/>Discover how I joined data between spreadsheet tabs without using VLookup or Pivot Tables. I explored connecting to Google Sheets and the OAuth2 enabled GSheets API, but I eventually figured out a way to save the data as an .xlsx file and load individual tabs using Pandas. Now I'm exploring the best way to log into Google services from Jupyter - read my blog post to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/openpyxl-for-creating-a-formatted-excel-file-from-python/">OpenPyXL for creating a formatted Excel file from Python</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I used openpyxl and pandas to create a formatted Excel file from Python. I stepped through each item in a loop and outputted a different tab into the spreadsheet, and then finished the task by deleting. Read my blog post to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-seo-serps-python-pandas-semrush/">A Day In The Life of An SEO SERPs, Python Pandas & SEMRush</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm embarking on a scavenger hunt to find the code I used the last time I did this project. I'm using Python to extract information from a database file, transform it into a usable format, and export it as a CSV file and an Excel xlsx file. I'm also using regex and tldextract to extract the domain from the search results. Finally, I'm using a bulk keyword analysis tool and a pivot table to organize the data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/platform/">Platform</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/service/">Service</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>