<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cluster-keywords-from-google-suggest-api/">How To Cluster Keywords From Google Suggest API</a> (Sat Feb 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring all the amazing features Google Photos has to offer, from converting HEIC to JPG to downloading, editing videos, and more. To come up with SEO-friendly names for my project, I wrote code to cluster keywords into groups and created a dictionary mapping each keyword to its group. I also wrote a function to find the most common two-word combination for each group and mapped that to the group name, creating a csv file with the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/little-things-big-changes/">Little Things, Big Changes</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>I'm reflecting on the idea of making small changes day-by-day rather than committing to long-term projects. I'm also revising and editing my writing style, and I'm excited to share something that isn't yet on the internet. Read my blog post to find out what it is and to learn more about making permanent changes in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/editing-files-that-are-the-same-across-multiple-sites/">Editing Files That Are The Same Across Multiple Sites</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>After a long work day, I'm taking extra time to make sure my blogging system is up-to-date. I'm creating a list of common files to edit, as well as a list of files that need to be copied for each release. I'm also setting up an 'includes' directory and adjusting the release code to make sure everything is pushed properly. Ready to get your blogging system up-to-date? Read on to find out how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-b1-commands-much-force-like-obi-wan/">vim :b1 Commands Much Force Like Obi-Wan</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>I use the vim command :b1 to get back to my personal private journal, which is the most important one. With vim, I can easily edit multiple files and copy/paste them to different websites, while keeping the original entry in my journal. Join me as I explore the power of vim and the special connection I have with Obi-Wan when I'm using it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/edit-10-blogs-homepages-or-templates-all-at-once/">Edit 10 Blogs, Homepages or Templates All At Once</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm breathing new life into MikeLev.in, creating a \_layouts folder in each repo with a default.html file to get my Google Analytics code on each site. I've also created helper-scripts to edit all my site-files at once and am putting rudimentary site-navigation links in place. I'm considering switching gears to make it about previous/next blog, so stay tuned for more updates!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/scheduling/">Scheduling</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/trick/">Tricks</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>