<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-equivalent-alternative-to-usr-local-sbin/">Looking For Equivalent Alternative to /usr/local/sbin</a> (Thu Apr 27, 2023)
<br/>I recently published from a Windows 11 laptop using NeoVim's new terminal macro and I'm starting to see the vimscript command: if has('nvim'). With this, I'm hoping to have a single .vimrc that works for both vim and NeoVim. I tested moving a draft post between machines and it worked, but I noticed that when I add anything to my spell-check library with the zg command, I lose syntax highlighting in NeoVim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/setting-up-lxd-on-wsl2-with-systemd-enabled-ubuntu-18-04/">Setting Up LXD on WSL2 with systemd enabled Ubuntu 18.04</a> (Wed Jul 27, 2022)
<br/>I'm setting up my first LXD container on WSL2, using Ubuntu 18.04. I've used lxd init and lxc launch to get the container running, and added two locations from the WSL2 Linux host to the container. I'm now preparing to start experimenting and need to make sure I have the right tools installed. I'm also learning how to check if systemd is running, and getting everything ready for my first container.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/having-the-confidence-to-diverge-from-nbdev-file-naming-convention/">Having The Confidence To Diverge From nbdev File Naming Convention</a> (Sun Jun 19, 2022)
<br/>I recently revamped my content release system and made changes to my .vimrc file, including replacing the blast.sh bash file with a new core.py file renamed to skite.py. Additionally, I deleted the blogslicer repo and removed it from PyPI. I'm pleased with my progress and will be writing a new article about it - come read all about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-ve-got-a-mic/">I've Got a Mic</a> (Thu May 19, 2022)
<br/>I'm passionate about talking into the mic and sharing my stories. In this blog post, I'll show you how to find Carnac, record a Vim macro, and use HTML singletons. Plus, learn how to add the macro to a .vimrc file, use Vim buffers, and more. Don't miss out on this 'mic lovin' goodness!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-vim-to-keep-one-journal-for-life/">Use vim to Keep One Journal For Life</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>I've been using Vim to journal and it has changed my life. It's difficult to learn, but the skills and muscle memory I've gained are permanent. Writing in Vim has helped me to better understand myself, and I've been able to use version control systems like Github to keep my .vimrc file with me wherever I go. I've also been learning new vim-tricks like buffers and registers to increase my power. Finally, I've created a single file, journal.md</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-thing-is-becoming-easy/">Every Little Thing Is Becoming Easy</a> (Tue May 03, 2022)
<br/>Today I was able to make a few easy tweaks to my 15 active websites, and I added a make_helpers.py script to my release script. I also figured out how to navigate to my .vimrc file with the command :b~[Tab], and I'm feeling good about the progress I'm making. Read more to find out how I achieved these results.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/journal-md/">Journal.md</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/productivity/">Productivity</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>