<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/ascii-alice-getting-smaller-to-fit-mobile/">ASCII Alice Getting Smaller to Fit Mobile</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I installed Ubuntu 20.04 at the Windows Store to make Alice smaller and optimize the mobile DrinkMe script experience. I'm eager to see the outcome of this work, and I'm excited to share my journey with you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vlogigng-from-bing-and-vim-to-youtube-and-github-pages/">Vlogigng from Bing and vim to YouTube and Github Pages</a> (Fri Mar 17, 2023)
<br/>I've been blogging and vlogging since 2007, sharing my thoughts and ideas without worrying about editing or technical matters. I use YouTube and blogging to express myself and get feedback, and I don't edit my videos for views. I write and publish my work in vim, and use Bing ChatBot to format it in markdown. Join me on my journey and read my work to get insight into my ideas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-a-better-place-to-blog-than-twitter/">This is a better place to blog than Twitter</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As I explore different blogging platforms, I'm learning that true automation is an illusion. I'm looking for cheaper options with less tech liability, while still remembering the debt I owe computers after being stung twice. Join me on my journey to find the perfect blogging platform.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-iron-is-hot-for-my-love-of-tech-book/">The Iron is Hot for My Love-Of Tech Book</a> (Tue Feb 28, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is not naturally tech-savvy, I'm taking my time to learn the tools, patterns, and predictions of the tech world. I'm aware of the potential pitfalls, but I'm embracing the challenge and making the most of every moment. Join me as I navigate my journey of learning and growing in the tech world.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fernando-corbato-ken-tohompson-linux-torvals-oh-my/">Fernando Corbato, Ken Tohompson & Linux Torvals, Oh My!</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>Explore my Linux Wonderland, an idea inspired by the individuals who made star-nix possible: Fernando Corbato, Ken Thompson, and Linus Torvalds. I'm creating projects under starnix, doing long-running scripts that run in the context of Linux services called daemons. See how this approach to tech is now as big as webdev, thanks to the Windows Subsystem for Linux, W. Come join me on this journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/unix-linux-won-are-now-the-rules-of-the-road/">Unix/Linux Won & Are Now The Rules of The Road</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin is a 20+ year veteran of the SEO industry who has seen many changes in technology over the years. From his experience as a student intern at Commodore to his current knowledge of Intel Management Engine (IME) and its implications for privacy, Mike has a deep understanding of Unix/Linux and its ever-growing presence in the tech world. Read his blog post to learn more about his journey and the impact of Unix/Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-can-be-devastating-if-you-re-already-feeling-imposter-syndrome/">ChatGPT Can Be Devastating If You're Already Feeling Imposter Syndrome</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm relaunching project Pipulate, an automatable system that ChatGPT can't do. With this project, I'm on a soul-cleansing path to learn to code without relying on cloud services and to talk code into existence. Join me on my journey and discover the power of self-learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/contemplating-labeling-latest-work-pipulate-again/">Contemplating Labeling Latest Work Pipulate Again</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm considering labeling my latest work as Pipulate and adding an "automount" option to my DrinkMe Linux install script. My YouTube video on the truth about systemd under WSL2 is gaining traction and I'm contemplating a workflow change, capturing ideas and forging source as Docker becomes more popular. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the decisions I'm making.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-spell/">Planning a Spell</a> (Fri Nov 18, 2022)
<br/>I recently had a life-changing realization that life is full of mysteries and that consciousness is still beyond science. This inspired me to plan a powerful spell that I will share with others, teaching them how to cast a spell of their own. Join me on my journey as I unlock the secrets of the universe and discover how to make magic happen.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-the-screen-command-for-linux-service/">How to Use the Screen Command for Linux Service</a> (Fri Oct 28, 2022)
<br/>As I learn how to use the Screen Command for Linux Service, I'm documenting my journey with a blog post. I've written a file to be placed in /etc/systemd/system/ and have watched a video to help me better understand the process. Come join me as I explore this new technology!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-automated-script-on-nas-24x7-under-lxd-container/">Running Automated Script on NAS 24x7 Under LXD Container</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm documenting my journey of learning about Container Station and LXD, and how I successfully set up a long-running script in a Linux Container on my QNAP NAS. I've already created two YouTube videos to document the process, and now I'm working on changing the script into a Python one and making it do something to remind me of something daily. Follow my journey and learn how to set up your own Linux Container!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/tried-to-start-a-project/">Tried To Start a Project</a> (Sun Oct 02, 2022)
<br/>Today I'm taking the plunge and starting a project I've been putting off - importing my MikeLev.in repo from WordPress. I'm considering giving up dates in the URLs so that blog posts look evergreen, but I'm wondering if I can selectively override the URL-generating system for individual blog posts. Join me as I take this journey and find out what happens next!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/october-first-no-gamma-burst-so-far-so-good/">October First No Gamma Burst... So Far So Good.</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>As I move to New York City on October 1, 2022, I'm determined to make the most of the opportunities, no matter the cost of living. Despite any filter events that have come my way, I'm staying positive and hopeful for the future. I'm grateful for my survival and want to reach a high level of prosperity. Join me as I document my journey to success in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automating-cycling-ips-on-hma-vpn-using-pywinauto/">Automating Cycling IPs on HMA VPN Using PyWinAuto</a> (Mon Sep 26, 2022)
<br/>I was hesitant to install Python from the Microsoft Store, but it was necessary to write a script with pywinauto that automates cycling IPs on HMA VPN. I'm happy to report that the script runs successfully and checks for goodip.txt to make sure it changes the IP address. Read my blog post to find out more about my journey of writing this script.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/programming-a-python-do-nothing-machine/">Programming a Python Do Nothing Machine</a> (Mon Sep 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm writing a program in Python to create a Do Nothing Machine. Using a command-line, I'm coding a loop that will run until a particular file is removed. The loop will print out the number of seconds it has been running, and once the file is removed, it will print "Need new IP" and create a new file to reset the counter. Follow my journey as I create this program and explore the possibilities of the Do Nothing Machine.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-people-know-how-you-feel/">Let People Know How You Feel</a> (Sat Sep 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking a stand against the drama in my life by leading by example and spreading my message with YouTube videos. I'm planning out the title and thumbnail for each video to make sure I'm sending the right message. Follow my journey and click through to the blog post to find out more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/this-is-where-i-reversed-the-ascii-rabbit/">This Is Where I Reversed The ASCII Rabbit</a> (Wed Aug 31, 2022)
<br/>On August 31, 2022, I used vim block select and the command "![Space]rev" to create a new ASCII rabbit, running in the right direction. I was so proud of my work that I updated my public journal banner with the new ASCII rabbit - come read about my journey and see the new banner!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reworking-site/">Reworking Site</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on my website today, using SimpleCSS for a new look. I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, Git and Jekyll skills to create a static page generator system. Testing out the Jekyll include system to create secondary navigation buttons, and considering externalizing the primary nav. Plus, two headers and lowercase versions of categories for my blogging. Come and join me on my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-average-windows-user-to-linux-terminal-user/">From Average Windows User to Linux Terminal User</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As an average Windows user, I'm taking advantage of Microsoft's partnership with Canonical to transition to Linux terminal. I'm installing Ubuntu on my existing laptop running Windows 10 or 11, so I can take advantage of the cloud and protect myself from obsolescence. Join me on my journey as I become a Linux terminal user.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/qnap-container-station-lxc-end-of-support-notification-move-to-lxd/">Qnap Container Station Lxc End Of Support Notification, Move To Lxd</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>As a QNAP NAS user, I recently received a notification that LXC files are no longer supported and I must transition to LXD. This left me with the need to do some research, which I have documented in this blog post. Read on to learn more about my journey and the results of my research.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gutting-dependencies-out-of-your-projects-life/">Gutting Dependencies Out Of Your Projects & Life</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm using Juneteenth as a day off from work to get some stuff done. I'm severing the dependency on Github Pages templates from my Jekyll static site generator and gradually getting better at coding. After making changes to the CSS file and deleting an import line, I inspected the cached CSS and transposed bits I wanted to keep. After publishing the page, the background turned white and the text and links were a more traditional color.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/having-the-confidence-to-diverge-from-nbdev-file-naming-convention/">Having The Confidence To Diverge From nbdev File Naming Convention</a> (Sun Jun 19, 2022)
<br/>I recently revamped my content release system and made changes to my .vimrc file, including replacing the blast.sh bash file with a new core.py file renamed to skite.py. Additionally, I deleted the blogslicer repo and removed it from PyPI. I'm pleased with my progress and will be writing a new article about it - come read all about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/failed-getting-lxd-working-under-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04-systemd-snap/">Failed Getting LXD Working Under WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04 systemd & snap</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I tried to get LXD running on WSL2, but couldn't make it work. Now I'm trying two things to make it work: installing the kernel headers and ZFS, and loading the module. I'll need to reload the module after each restart. Read my blog post to find out how this journey went!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/trying-again-to-get-lxd-working-under-microsoft-subsystem-for-linux/">Trying Again To Get LXD Working Under Microsoft Subsystem For Linux</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm determined to get LXD running under Microsoft Subsystem for Linux, and I'm not giving up! I've followed the official instructions and attempted to create a new storage pool, but I keep running into errors. To document my journey, I'm creating a new video - join me as I work to make this work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/remain-positive-know-signs-of-when-you-re-doing-something-right/">Remain Positive & Know Signs Of When You're Doing Something Right</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm making a big move back to New York and embracing the challenge. I'm learning to think more deeply, choose who I want to be, and move my life forward like a scientist. I'm no longer allowing myself to stay stuck and instead am taking action to do what's right. Read my blog post to find out more about my journey and how I'm staying positive during this transition.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/install-zfsutils-linux-to-prep-for-lxd-on-wsl/">Install ZFSUtils-Linux To Prep For LXD on WSL</a> (Mon May 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm on a mission to move my life forward, so I'm looking around the world to find the answers. Today, I'm focusing on LXD, a Linux container service, and I'm learning how to install ZFS Filesystem for Linux and the advantages of containers over virtual machines. Come along with me on my journey and read my blog post to see what I'm learning.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/putting-mlseo-on-subdomain-of-mikelevinseo-com/">Putting mlseo on subdomain of MikeLevinSEO.com</a> (Sat May 21, 2022)
<br/>I recently set up a subdomain for my website, MikeLevinSEO.com, and was thrilled to see that everything went smoothly. I love it when things are this easy, and I'm always looking for new challenges. Check out my blog post to learn more about my journey and how I set up the subdomain.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/connecting-the-dots-ain-t-easy/">Connecting The Dots Ain't Easy</a> (Wed May 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm trying to learn how to connect the dots and it's not easy. I'm taking a different approach: instead of drawing first, I'm learning how to look. Join me on my journey to figure out how to connect the dots and start seeing the bigger picture.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-driving-force-of-integration/">A Driving Force of Integration</a> (Sun May 08, 2022)
<br/>I had an amazing time practicing driving with Nat. We navigated winding roads and a one-lane bridge, and talked about how learning to drive can help build confidence and independence. We even came up with a special code-word to remind us of this special moment. Come read more about our journey and what we learned!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-into-the-flow-or-the-zone/">Getting Into The Flow Or The Zone</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>For the past 15 years, I've been struggling to get into the flow while working in a cubicle. But thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown, I've been able to re-achieve this state of productivity and focus -- just like in the Disney Pixar movie Soul. Working from home has allowed me to block out distractions and become more productive, and I'm exploring the concept of "feeding the love-worthiness of things". Read my blog post to learn more about my journey!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-style-sheets-to-github-pages-jekyll-blog/">Adding Style Sheets to Github Pages Jekyll Blog</a> (Sat Apr 30, 2022)
<br/>I figured out how to add style sheets to my Github Pages Jekyll Blog using the sass css generator. After pasting the CSS provided in the article I was working off of underneath the @import 'jekyll-theme-hacker' line, I was able to add the prev/next arrows to my blog. Come read more about my journey in adding style sheets to my blog!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-project-gets-done/">Every Little Project Gets Done!</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed the name of my project to ELTgd (Every Little Thing Gets Done) to push myself to do more and practice my vim skills. I'm also using whatsametafor.io to document my progress. Click through to read more about my journey and how I'm getting things done!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/">Teaching My Wife vim</a> (Sun Apr 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm teaching my wife vim, which I use to copy and paste text files and back up code to Github. I've been using vim for decades, and I'm excited to help my wife learn this timeless technology. I overcame my own negative experience with vim to understand its importance, and I'm enjoying the meaningful experience of helping my wife learn it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/re-launch-mikelevinseo-com-on-github-io/">(Re)Launch MikeLevinSEO.com on Github.io</a> (Fri Aug 6, 2021)
<br/>I'm excited to announce the relaunch of my blog/journal on Github.io! After finding the DNS, deleting records, and setting up the Github repository, I enabled Github Pages, added the domain to Github settings, and customized the template. To top it off, I added Google Analytics and Search Console tracking. Come check out my new blog and join me on this journey!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/jupyterlab/">JupyterLab</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/journaling/">Journaling</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>