<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/being-in-the-zone-vs-thinking-about-being-in-the-zone/">Being In The Zone vs. Thinking About Being In The Zone</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently had an interesting discussion with my kid about the importance of being in the zone and not thinking about being in the zone. We discussed how it's important to know the difference between being in the zone and getting into a 'meta' state, which can derail your groove and prevent you from doing something well.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-won-t-write-story-about-excessively-biased-chatbot/">Bing Won't Write Story About Excessively Biased ChatBot</a> (Mon Mar 06, 2023)
<br/>As an AI researcher, I'm exploring the implications of chatbot bias and AI competition. While these phenomena can be beneficial for innovation and learning, they can also present ethical and social challenges. Join me as I explore the potential benefits and risks of these two topics.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cluster-keywords-from-google-suggest-api/">How To Cluster Keywords From Google Suggest API</a> (Sat Feb 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring all the amazing features Google Photos has to offer, from converting HEIC to JPG to downloading, editing videos, and more. To come up with SEO-friendly names for my project, I wrote code to cluster keywords into groups and created a dictionary mapping each keyword to its group. I also wrote a function to find the most common two-word combination for each group and mapped that to the group name, creating a csv file with the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/enabling-vim-s-visual-block-mode-on-linux-wsl-ctrl-v/">Enabling vim's Visual Block mode on Linux WSL (Ctrl+v)</a> (Wed May 11, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered a powerful feature of vim called Visual Block mode, which allows you to quickly add text to multiple lines. However, this feature wasn't available in the Microsoft Terminal program when running vim under Linux in Windows via WSL. After a few steps, I was determined to figure out how to activate this feature and eventually succeeded. Learn how I overcame the challenge and how you can activate Visual Block mode in vim.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/anyone-who-tells-you-language-doesn-t-matter-is-a-lying-dumbass/">Anyone Who Tells You Language Doesn't Matter is a Lying Dumbass</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>As a programmer, I missed the Full Web Stack revolution based on Google V8 JavaScript extraction from Chrome known as NodeJS. I chose Python as my primary language, and while I appreciate JavaScript's loveworthy bits, I've always wondered why web browsers are so locked down to just JavaScript. Discover why this restriction forces the web to be an always JavaScript game, and the browser vendor and governance issues behind it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/productivity/">Productivity</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/flow/">Flow</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>