<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/learnings-from-weekend-openai-keyword-extraction-clustering-project/">Learnings From Weekend OpenAI Keyword Extraction & Clustering Project</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I recently used the OpenAI API to gain hands-on experience with keyword extraction and clustering to create a story-like visualization in the console. I applied the 80/20 rule to solve the issue of errors with structured lists, and gained new respect for Vim/NeoVim and caution for VSCode. I'm now using NeoVim and Copilot to finish a data project, and have discovered that machines being intelligent now means that I have a virtual assistant.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-s-racism-towards-ai-called-ai-bias-algorithmic-bias-speciest/">What's Racism Towards AI called? AI bias? Algorithmic Bias? Speciest?</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I recently joined the waiting list for the new Bing search engine and am already using it. I'm considering making a YouTube video to capitalize on the increased search traffic, and creating content about Python, Vim, and the Windows Subsystem for Linux. Join me on my journey as I explore these topics and uncover the potential for long-term success.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-jupyter-desktop-set-python-environment-error-message/">Fixing Jupyter Desktop Set Python Environment Error Message</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I recently encountered an error message when using JupterLab-Desktop 3.3.4-2 and was able to fix it by installing the official Python 3.10.5 from Python.org and creating a venv named pyw3105. Read my blog post to find out how I did it and learn how to fix the Jupter Desktop Set Python Environment problem.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/trying-again-to-get-lxd-working-under-microsoft-subsystem-for-linux/">Trying Again To Get LXD Working Under Microsoft Subsystem For Linux</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm determined to get LXD running under Microsoft Subsystem for Linux, and I'm not giving up! I've followed the official instructions and attempted to create a new storage pool, but I keep running into errors. To document my journey, I'm creating a new video - join me as I work to make this work!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/journal.md/">Journal.md</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/imposter syndrome/">Imposter Syndrome</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>