<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/">Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-the-new-bing-how-to-get-indexed/">Introducing The New Bing / How to Get Indexed</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert and Linux enthusiast, I am having a conversation with Bing about how to accurately represent my content. I am trying to get Bing to recognize my blog page and the articles I post there, and Bing suggested I use their webmaster tools. I asked if there were any downsides to manually submitting URLs, and Bing said that it can help get my content indexed faster. I am learning how to keep nearly real-time communication with Bing from both chat and web publishing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/one-penguin-turns-and-says-to-the-other-you-know-it-s-funny/">One Penguin Turns and Says to The Other, You Know It's Funny...</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm an SEO, and I'm reflecting on the incredible technology that has allowed us to evolve over time. I'm exploring the impact of GNU licenses and the contributions of Ken Thompson, Linux Torvalds and Richard Matthew Stallman, as well as the implications of artificial intelligence. I'm also reminiscing about my journey from Commodore to Scala to Conners Communications, and my creation of HitTail, to my current position in New York City.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/practicing-what-i-preach/">Practicing What I Preach</a> (Sat Oct 15, 2022)
<br/>I've been busy with work and family, but I'm recommitting to writing in my journal. I'm exploring the LXD Linux Container Jupyter platform, which has been challenging but rewarding, and Microsoft's NT system, which has enabled the creation of protection rings and running concurrent operating systems. I'm amazed at how Microsoft is transitioning into the future, and I'm reflecting on the fundamentals of object-oriented and concurrency that remain.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/vendor/">Vendors</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/competitor/">Competitors</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>