<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/talked-bing-into-submitting-copy-paste-bug-about-itself/">Talked Bing into Submitting Copy/Paste Bug About Itself</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I am the one responsible for forwarding user feedback and suggestions to the Bing team. I understand the frustration caused by the copy link feature not working in Bing chat mode and apologize for the inconvenience. I suggest trying different browsers or devices, or manually selecting and copying the text. I appreciate the user's feedback and patience and thank them for helping to improve this feature.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-multiple-blogs-within-one-github-pages-site/">Planning Multiple Blogs Within One Github Pages Site</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning to use Github Pages to host multiple blogs in one site, and I'm considering changes to my old content and URLs, as well as adding tags, a "big list" of blog posts, pagination, and thumbnail embeds. My goal is to create a website that provides the wisdom of the ages, allowing for objective thought and accessible through any device or tablet. Come explore my digital portal and join me in creating a space of freedom and objectivity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/share-folder-between-windows-wsl-linux-container-and-home-cloud/">Share Folder Between Windows, WSL Linux, Container and Home Cloud</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As an IT professional, I'm setting up a shared ~/data folder across four different locations: my laptop's main Windows system, a Linux system running under WSL2, an LXD Linux Container hosted under WSL2, and an LXD Container hosted on a separate machine. I'm mapping a network drive from my laptop's Windows system, mounting a drive from the Linux system, and adding a device to the LXD Linux Container. Follow my journey as I set up this complex shared folder</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-container-on-windows-wsl2-using-nas-smb-cifs-share/">LXD Container on Windows WSL2 Using NAS SMB/CIFS Share</a> (Mon Jul 25, 2022)
<br/>After struggling to set up a LXD container, I found the solution to my problem - mapping my NAS, .ssh folder, .gitconfig, and .vimrc files, and then running two commands from within the container. I also had to mount a Windows network share using the command 'sudo mount -t drvfs '\\EchidNAS\data' /mnt/data'. Now my LXD container is running as expected.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-edge-history-is-now-syncing-turn-off/">Microsoft Edge history is now syncing (turn off)</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>I experienced an unexpected surprise when I rebooted my computer - Microsoft Edge was syncing my browsing history and open tabs across all my devices. To protect my privacy, I created a video tutorial to show how to turn this feature off. Check out my blog post to learn how to quickly and easily disable Microsoft Edge history syncing.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/homepage/">Homepage</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/install/">Install</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>