<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/the-time-i-learned-i-was-a-yankee-doodle-dandy/">The Time I Learned I Was a Yankee Doodle Dandy</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>Am I Michael Scott? I think so sometimes. But then I remember I trained like a mofo to never be an imposter, and I've got the vim skills to prove it. I've learned that subtlety and nuance make all the difference, and even if you come off like the bumbling fool, that's okay. Creative folks have to run alone sometimes, so that they can offer their greatest value when they return to the pack.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rid-yourself-of-imposter-syndrome-and-start-living-your-best-life/">Rid Yourself of Imposter Syndrome and Start Living Your Best Life</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I never really became an entrepreneur, but I do use their tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git to build my projects and occasionally consider Kickstarting campaign. I no longer suffer from imposter syndrome, as I have learned that I am good enough and can be proud of my work. I now show others that it is possible to follow their dreams and make a difference, without being an assholepreneur. LPvg gives me the tools I need to build and stay ahead of the curve. Join me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cope-thrive-through-ai-induced-existential-crisis/">How To Cope & Thrive Through AI-Induced Existential Crisis</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO specialist, I'm exploring how to cope and thrive in this AI-induced existential crisis. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, vim & git tools and habits to expand my coding capabilities. I'm confronting my fears of AI and learning that it's not a replacement for humans, but a tool to help them. Through this journey, I'm discovering how AI can create new opportunities and make jobs easier and more efficient. Join me on my journey to gain a better understanding.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-can-be-devastating-if-you-re-already-feeling-imposter-syndrome/">ChatGPT Can Be Devastating If You're Already Feeling Imposter Syndrome</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm relaunching project Pipulate, an automatable system that ChatGPT can't do. With this project, I'm on a soul-cleansing path to learn to code without relying on cloud services and to talk code into existence. Join me on my journey and discover the power of self-learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-an-imposter-have-you-heard-of-imposter-syndrome/">Are You An Imposter? Have You Heard of Imposter Syndrome?</a> (Sat Dec 10, 2022)
<br/>As a New York SEO expert, I'm making my home cozy and inviting while encouraging people to familiarize themselves with tech and info tech. I'm leveraging my two domains, Pipulate and Levinux, and discussing imposter syndrome and how financial worth isn't a measure of someone's validity. Join me in my journey as I explore the world of tech and info tech and learn how to make your home cozy and inviting.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-is-the-cure-to-imposter-syndrome-vimpossible/">vim is the cure to Imposter Syndrome (vimpossible!)</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I have experienced Imposter Syndrome and understand how it feels. I'm going to teach people how to be free of this feeling forever by providing an alternative to web development with Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. Vim is a lifetime endeavor and is the native user interface for the Unix Philosophy, created by Bell Labs in 1970, and the Free and Open Source Software movement provides the opportunity to get better with the tools over time.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/still-figuring-out-next-step-what-i-want-at-52/">Still Figuring Out Next Step & What I Want at 52</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>At 52, I'm still trying to figure out my life and how to make a living without taking advantage of others. I'm exploring how human beings can evolve in a post-scarcity world and creating an unending stream of interesting experiences. I'm grateful to be alive and functional in society and am looking for my next step.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/science/">Science</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/bash/">Bash</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>