<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/running-ubuntu-18-04-and-ubuntu-20-04-simultaneously-under-wsl-2/">Running Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04 Simultaneously Under WSL 2</a> (Sat Sep 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my Windows taskbar to include a BASH Shell, Jupyter and Web browser, and it's become part of my daily routine. I had to decide whether to keep one copy of Linux running under WSL, so I chose to run both 18.04 and 20.04 side-by-side. Follow me as I take you through my obsessive compulsive journey of updating my taskbar and deciding which Linux OS to run.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-down-the-wsl-to-lxd-install-script-rabbit-hole/">Going Down the WSL to LXD Install Script Rabbit Hole</a> (Mon Sep 12, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project to create a bash install script that will set up a Jupyter server on a Windows machine. I'm writing the script, installing it from an Ubuntu 18.04 instance with LXD, creating a PowerShell script, and setting up a ~/repos folder and jupyme repo. Follow my journey as I build this project and learn along the way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-epic-nbdev-static-site-generator-post/">The Epic nbdev Static Site Generator Post</a> (Thu Jun 16, 2022)
<br/>I recently downgraded from Ubuntu 20.04 to Ubuntu 18.04, which broke my blog release system. To fix this, I am switching from Unix Scripts to Python Programs, using argparse and the Python Standard Library to modularize my programs and make them work from the command-line with arguments. I'm learning about the subprocess API options, setting up a virtualenv and installing Python 3.10, creating a git repo, and writing a blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/path-f-path-mkdir-parents-true-exist-ok-true/">Path(f'{\_path}').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>I'm up early, focused on operation ELTgd, and have been able to put my new blog publishing system to use. I've written scripts in Python and Bash to create directories and config files, and to commit the changes to git. I'm now editing 19 files in vim to make sure a bunch of folders exist on all 15 sites. Join me as I detail my release process and the steps I take to ensure everything runs smoothly.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bopping-between-python-bash-scripts-no-biggie/">Bopping Between Python & Bash Scripts No Biggie</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved my Wordpress site off of my HostMonster account and exported the content as markdown. To re-publish the content, I used Github Pages and managed the blog content across 15 sites with a single journal.md file and a bash file. To make the process easier, I wrote a Python script, make_helpers, to manage the sites.txt file and change the order of the file locations. Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-github-ci-nbdev-install-git-hooks/">Disabling Github CI nbdev_install_git_hooks</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my release script using a bash loop and asked myself a few questions to help me decide what the next steps should be. After disabling Github CI nbdev_install_git_hooks and running my release script, I decided the best place to host my project was mikelevinseo.com. Read my blog post to find out how I got there and what I did next.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/science/">Science</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/development/">Development</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>