<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/switched-from-text-davinci-002-to-text-davinci-003/">Switched from text-davinci-002 to text-davinci-003</a> (Tue Apr 18, 2023)
<br/>I switched to text-davinci-003 to get better summaries, descriptions, headlines, and keywords from OpenAI, but it cost me more. I committed the data to a git repo so I could access it even if the databases got deleted. Going forward, I'll only process single posts as I explore AI capabilities. Join me as I explore the AI capabilities and the cost of processing data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-how-openai-couldn-t-format-keywords-consistently/">Fixing How OpenAI Couldn't Format Keywords Consistently</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I'm working to fix OpenAI keyword problems by writing code to recognize text that doesn't match the keyword format, handling commas inside quotes, and creating histograms. I've used this code to re-write the database of keywords for my blog, validate YAML in Python without Jekyll, and create category pages and navigation. I'm committed to developing a code that can consistently format keywords.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/looking-for-the-best-python-dict-like-api-to-nosql/">Looking For The Best Python dict-like API to NoSQL</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the question of whether making a Python dictionary persistent would make it considered a database, and if so, a NoSQL system. It explains the features needed from the database and provides information about three libraries: ZODB, UnQLite and SqliteDict. I also discuss the possibility of using Python packages to provide a unified dict-like key-value persistent store across different back ends, and provide an example of how to use PyDAL to create a dict-</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fetching-saving-html-from-list-of-urls-using-python/">Fetching & Saving HTML From List of URLs Using Python</a> (Tue Feb 21, 2023)
<br/>As I prepare to start my new job, I'm taking care of all the necessary tasks, including ordering a standing desk and organizing my apartment. I also attended a group meeting with my employer and got all the onboarding paperwork done. To help out a friend, I'm creating a program to scrape data from a website and store it in an Excel file, using Python and Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-google-photos-api-to-generate-main-archive-favorite-media-lists/">Using Google Photos API to Generate Main, Archive & Favorite Media Lists</a> (Fri Feb 03, 2023)
<br/>I'm using Google Photos API to generate three databases - 'all', 'main', and 'favorites' - and an 'archive' database. I'm using Python functions to query the API, store the results, and create custom labeled tuples with a start date and end date. I'm also chunking the project into week-by-week chunks, making it easier to manage. This code provides a way to make the code clearer and easier to understand.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/where-to-begin-pickle-your-dicts/">Where to Begin? Pickle Your Dicts!</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post invites readers to explore the possibilities of data and tech skills, providing an example of how to create a Pipulate server from a Windows Linux instance. It also dives into the appeal of tool use, and how to create a Python dictionary object and store it in a SQLite database using the SqliteDict package. Join me as I explore the potential of data and tech skills and the tools available to make them work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-could-be-super-enabling-helping-you-code-at-all/">AI Could be Super-Enabling, Helping You Code At All</a> (Thu Jan 26, 2023)
<br/>As a coding novice, I used ChatGPT to learn how to code in Python and edit videos. With the help of ChatGPT, I was able to gain the superpower of coding in Python to help me with my project. I also used OpenAI API to submit JSONL data and extract data from HTML. To store the data, I chose to use a SQLite database and DNS to translate IPs. Finally, I virtualized Linux and used a RaspberryPi-based server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-tuple-keys/">An Ode Tuple Keys</a> (Sat Jan 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm downloading an update for Windows 10 Version 22H2 and transitioning to Linux, using the power of NT's "rings of protection". I'm running Web browser automation under Microsoft Playwright and using iPython Notebooks under JupyterLab running on Linux. I'm also exploring the usefulness of tuples in Python, and looping through a database of URLs to extract data and create a table which I'm writing to a parquet file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-week-date-for-last-30-years-with-fixed-ids/">Every Week Date for Last 30 Years With Fixed IDs</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>I had a project to work on that required me to work with a lot of data. To make sense of the data, I decided to enumerate life in terms of weeks starting from the week of birth. Using named tuples, I was able to calculate clean week-start dates and give each week a fixed ID. This allowed me to list the data in a way that I could easily remember what day of the week a person was born on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-nosql-sqlitedict-to-sql-transformation/">From NoSQL SqliteDict to SQL Transformation</a> (Sun Jan 01, 2023)
<br/>I have been using the SqliteDict package to store data from API calls, and I'm now looking into parsing Google Photos data by day. I wrote a Python program to look at the contents of a database, and I'm now working on updates to the open source library ohawf. I'm planning to push out better documentation and am even thinking of creating an MLML license. Click through to read more about my journey in programming and machine learning!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-large-browser-automation-job/">Planning A Large Browser Automation Job</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm getting ready for a big browser automation job. I'm creating a new folder, making a repository, giving the project a codename, loading data into a dataframe, deduplicating it, calculating an estimated time of completion, and generating API-calls for the full year. Plus, I'm setting up a structure to step through a database and perform an API call or browser automation, creating a namedtuple with 100 domains, and using a template for browser automation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-day-in-the-life-of-an-seo-serps-python-pandas-semrush/">A Day In The Life of An SEO SERPs, Python Pandas & SEMRush</a> (Wed Aug 17, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm embarking on a scavenger hunt to find the code I used the last time I did this project. I'm using Python to extract information from a database file, transform it into a usable format, and export it as a CSV file and an Excel xlsx file. I'm also using regex and tldextract to extract the domain from the search results. Finally, I'm using a bulk keyword analysis tool and a pivot table to organize the data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/mac/">Mac</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/google/">Google</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>