<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-ais-will-find-you-if-you-re-unique/">The AIs Will Find You If You're Unique</a> (Mon Feb 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm taking my Google Photos processing to the next level by creating a service to download and copy one month of photos at random. To do this, I'm using Python scripts, headless Linux Chrome automation, and the headlines import to generate a list of files to be archived. I'm also taking the Google Photos tutorial out of the practice folder and moving it to the actual gphotos repo. Follow my journey as I take my Google Photos processing to the next level!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-sheets-api-python-example/">Google Sheets API Python Example</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to use the Google Sheets API and Python to populate data into a Google Spreadsheet. This project will use the Google APIs released with GA4 and the URL https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/guides/concepts to connect to Google Sheets and capture an easy-to-read example of reading and writing. Follow my step-by-step guide to learn how to do this!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recovering-old-laptops-for-video-production-purposes/">Recovering Old Laptops For Video Production Purposes</a> (Sun Sep 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a video tutorial to show how to upgrade WSL1 and reset Windows 11 to Windows 10, using a laptop with a version lower than 18917. To ensure accuracy, I'm researching Wikipedia pages and downloading Windows Win10_1809Oct_v2_English_x64.iso. Join me on my journey as I work to make this video and worry about ruining it with a system update!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-video-series-that-drives-message-home/">Planning a Video Series That Drives Message Home</a> (Thu Aug 25, 2022)
<br/>This video series will be a tutorial on how to move away from Microsoft and Apple systems and will explore topics such as Windows 10, WSL2, LXD Containers, and programming projects. I'll also discuss the evolution of an idea, the pursuit of craft, the 80/20-rule, and how to do what you love for money. Join me on this journey to reach a wider audience and learn how to make the switch from Microsoft and Apple systems.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sending-emails-with-python-through-smtp/">Sending Emails With Python Through SMTP</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently created a video tutorial on how to send emails with Python. I demonstrated how to use a Python list comprehension for carriage returns and linefeeds, as well as two text files for the sender's and recipient's email addresses. I also showed how to log into the server, write the message body, and use the sendmail function to send the email. Click through to learn how to write code to send emails with Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/upgrading-jupyterlab-pip-installs/">Upgrading JupyterLab pip installs</a> (Tue May 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm looking for a way to upgrade my pip installs on JupyterLab and Jupyter Notebooks. I found a solution! I cloned mlseo from Github and used 10_requirements.ipynb. To learn more, I watched a video tutorial on YouTube. Check out my blog post to get the full scoop.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-control-urls-and-links-in-jekyll/">How To Control URLs and Links in Jekyll</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm blogging using Jekyll and Github Pages and have just made some changes to the theme. I'm now following a DigitalOcean tutorial to control URLs and links in Jekyll - hoping for successful changes to propagate soon! Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/future/">Future</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/publishing/">Publishing</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>