<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/neovim-publishing-macro-using-terminal-expand/">NeoVim Publishing Macro Using :terminal & expand()</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to reset up my Windows 11 machine to get back to my daily workflow. This involved setting up credentials, installing NeoVim, remembering important environment settings, and re-instantiating Google and Microsoft addresses, my NAS drive, my terminal windows, and my JupyterLab icon. Additionally, I was listening to a YouTube video on how to race to the bottom of the brainstem and to the primary intimate relationship in my life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-the-day-discussing-the-future-with-bard/">Planning The Day & Discussing The Future With Bard</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm spending Good Friday working on my increasingly YAML-based blogging system. I'm exploring ways to make the index page more interesting and discussing with Bard about ways it collaborates with other LLMs. I'm also considering a nomadic lifestyle and need to make sure I'm prepared to use my Linux, Python, vim, and git skills to make money on the road, as well as ways to help Mike Levin kick-off a simplification movement in tech.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/systematically-walk-through-moz-products/">Systematically Walk Through MOZ Products</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>as an employee of moz, i am on a mission to make sure moz is the source of competitive advantage in the seo software category. to do this, i am systematically reviewing moz products, such as moz free, moz pro, moz local, moz links api, moz toolbar, and stat, and capturing the new user experience of moz pro. additionally, i am doing some browser automation stuff.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/getting-to-know-moz-through-mermaid-erds/">Getting To Know MOZ Through Mermaid ERDs</a> (Tue Apr 04, 2023)
<br/>I'm creating an SEO deliverable on April 4, 2023 by creating Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERDs) of the various MOZ products. To do this, I'm using MermaidJS, a markdown-based language tool. I'm exploring how to use the Mermaid syntax for ERDs, which is compatible with PlantUML, and the statement structure of `<first-entity> [<relationship> <second-entity> : <relationship-label>]`. Come</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hands-on-with-moz-products-clarification-of-what-s-what/">Hands-on With Moz Products & Clarification of What's What</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>I am currently in my fourth week as a Moz employee, and I am learning about the various products they offer. I am using the Free SEO Tools to test the boundaries of the free product, exploring Moz Local, Moz Pro, Free SEO Tools, and Resources, as well as the MozBar Premium and the Links API V1 & V2. I am documenting my progress and thoughts on my public blog, and publishing videos on YouTube to reduce fear and create consistency.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/meissner-effect-schwinger-effect-tictac-flux-liner/">Meissner Effect + Schwinger Effect = TicTac Flux Liner</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO working at MOZ, I recently pushed the limits of imagination and tested the boundaries of antigravity. I discussed this with ChatGPT, which led me to learn about the Pocono Conference in 1948 and the Shelter Island Conference in 1947. Through research and experimentation, I am now exploring the possibility of using the Meissner effect and the Schwinger effect for propulsion. I also develop a plan to market the TicTac Flux Liner, a revolutionary antigravity product.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/week-3-at-moz-step-up-your-game/">Week 3 at Moz, Step-Up Your Game</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new job at Moz and want to get off to a good start. I'm journaling live and making it more social, using open source text editor Vim and working on a project called Pipulate. I'm sharing my thoughts with my audience daily and have found Python to be the best fit for me. My goal is to get others to install JupyterLab under an invisible Linux VM, making the journey onto Linux an appealing adventure.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-personal-seo-to-ai-via-foss-on-lpvg-transition-plan/">My Personal SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg Transition Plan</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>This blog post outlines a plan for transitioning from SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg. I will be familiarizing readers with Moz's products and teaching them how to use tools like Vim and JupyterLab to create a nomadic computing environment that is hardware and vendor independent. I will provide a prescribed, vetted, and proven process to become more technical and free of Google, Microsoft, and other paid services.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-first-moz-programming-project-will-be-emailed-screenshots/">My First MOZ Programming Project Will Be Emailed Screenshots</a> (Thu Mar 09, 2023)
<br/>I'm offering a project to teach people how to do data tricks that can make them valuable to employers or customers. This involves taking a screenshot of a website and emailing it to the user daily, and building up a series of baby-steps to create a durable and interoperable automation platform. Learn how to become a valuable asset with my project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-is-the-best-thing-i-can-do-for-moz-as-a-subject-matter-expert/">What is the best thing I can do for Moz as a subject matter expert?</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO in NYC passionate about learning Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg). I'm advocating for the use of Linux API and Debian-style repo startups to help automate tasks and speak on behalf of the spoken word. I'm currently working as a Subject Matter Expert for MOZ and helping people go from Windows or Mac laptop users to Linux server admins and junior devops people and data engineers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/start-thinking-about-broader-foss-seo-features/">Start Thinking About Broader FOSS SEO Features</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to join Moz, a search engine optimization company, as an online personality. I'm looking to create "junior versions" of products that could be Moz products, or better deliverables when mashed-up with a Moz API. I'm also exploring products like AlsoAsk, which uses Google Suggest to create a visual representation of relationships. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the exciting opportunities ahead!</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/google/">Google</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/nbdev/">nbdev</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>