<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/left-is-the-past-and-right-is-the-future-right-blog-arrows/">Left is The Past and Right is The Future, Right? (Blog Arrows)</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the beauty and logic of arrow navigation. It can take some finagling to get it right, but it's a great 80/20-rule solution. With a configurable option, I'm able to make it so that the 'past' is left, and the 'future' is right - perfect for website navigation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/disabling-ai-auto-publishing-anything/">Disabling AI Auto-Publishing Anything</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently discovered a problem with Jekyll when trying to produce a list of the 10 most recent posts. To solve this, I used Python to control the list iteration and created a 5 x 20 grid of the top-100 categories on my website. After testing it in Jupyter, I successfully produced a table with the top 100 categories. I also recently switched from Windows 10 to Windows 11 and was able to transfer the 'soul' of the machine, including my system setup.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fixing-how-openai-couldn-t-format-keywords-consistently/">Fixing How OpenAI Couldn't Format Keywords Consistently</a> (Mon Apr 17, 2023)
<br/>I'm working to fix OpenAI keyword problems by writing code to recognize text that doesn't match the keyword format, handling commas inside quotes, and creating histograms. I've used this code to re-write the database of keywords for my blog, validate YAML in Python without Jekyll, and create category pages and navigation. I'm committed to developing a code that can consistently format keywords.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/editing-all-pages-all-at-once/">Editing All Pages All At Once</a> (Tue Dec 13, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explores the challenges of adjusting to a new SEO workflow, including editing 13 files in vim buffers, cleaning up a Skite static site generator repo, and making changes to the main pages and blog query. It's a difficult transition for the author, who is a pack-rat when it comes to online things, and they must learn to let go of old habits in order to make the most of the blog query and toggle active or inactive posts.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adding-the-who-what-why-when-where-how-to-site-nav/">Adding the Who, What, Why, When, Where & How To Site Nav</a> (Tue Jun 28, 2022)
<br/>I'm proposing a new way to manage life as a whole, by creating and automating tasks to be internalized and passed onto muscle memory. To help with this, I'm suggesting the use of Linux, Python, vim & git. I've added the Who, What, Why, When, Where & How to my website's navigation, and I'm now working on creating the pages to go along with it. Come find out more about my revolutionary idea and how it can help you manage life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-thing-is-becoming-easy/">Every Little Thing Is Becoming Easy</a> (Tue May 03, 2022)
<br/>Today I was able to make a few easy tweaks to my 15 active websites, and I added a make_helpers.py script to my release script. I also figured out how to navigate to my .vimrc file with the command :b~[Tab], and I'm feeling good about the progress I'm making. Read more to find out how I achieved these results.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/gnu/">GNU</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/text-editors/">text editors</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>