<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rendering-un-styled-jekyll-markdown-drafts-for-pasting-into-google-docs/">Rendering Un-Styled Jekyll Markdown Drafts for Pasting Into Google Docs</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>Render un-styled Jekyll Markdown drafts for pasting into Google Docs with this easy-to-implement technique. Learn how to use the `published: false` directive, the `yaml_generator` function, and a stripped-down template named `plain.html` to generate drafts that can be pasted into Google Docs.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-zero-fuel-solar-nomadic-lifestyle-plus-homeschooling/">A Zero Fuel Solar Nomadic Lifestyle Plus Homeschooling</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>I'm planning the ultimate road trip for 2023 and I'm excited to explore the United States and Canada! I'm looking into a nomadic lifestyle with solar energy as my fuel source and researching solar generators, Toyota Prius Prime, Aptera, and ElectraMeccanica's SOLO. I'm also homeschooling my child and teaching them about renewable energy, sustainable living, and problem-solving. With this curriculum, I'm sure to have an unforgettable experience!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/can-large-language-models-help-you-learn-math/">Can Large Language Models Help You Learn Math?</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm talking to Bing about how to learn math quickly and effectively. We discussed general tips, Khan Academy, and how to convert word problems and data into calculus formulas. I also discovered Symbolab's ms Calculator, which I'm using to analyze SERP data and identify trends in the directionality of URLs and websites. Join me on my journey to learn math and uncover insights from SERP data.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-won-t-write-story-about-excessively-biased-chatbot/">Bing Won't Write Story About Excessively Biased ChatBot</a> (Mon Mar 06, 2023)
<br/>As an AI researcher, I'm exploring the implications of chatbot bias and AI competition. While these phenomena can be beneficial for innovation and learning, they can also present ethical and social challenges. Join me as I explore the potential benefits and risks of these two topics.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/compatible-linux-x-server-graphics-across-windows-mac/">Compatible Linux X Server Graphics Across Windows & Mac</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>As a reader trying to decide between Manim and Synfig for animation software, I need to consider my individual learning style, goals, and preferences. I am looking for step-by-step instructions to install Manim and supporting libraries on Ubuntu, as well as how to access localhost port 8888 and run JupyterLab on an Intel Mac. I have found resources on Proxy for accessing host Windows in WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-iron-is-hot-for-my-love-of-tech-book/">The Iron is Hot for My Love-Of Tech Book</a> (Tue Feb 28, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is not naturally tech-savvy, I'm taking my time to learn the tools, patterns, and predictions of the tech world. I'm aware of the potential pitfalls, but I'm embracing the challenge and making the most of every moment. Join me as I navigate my journey of learning and growing in the tech world.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-use-the-screen-command-for-linux-service/">How to Use the Screen Command for Linux Service</a> (Fri Oct 28, 2022)
<br/>As I learn how to use the Screen Command for Linux Service, I'm documenting my journey with a blog post. I've written a file to be placed in /etc/systemd/system/ and have watched a video to help me better understand the process. Come join me as I explore this new technology!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-automated-script-on-nas-24x7-under-lxd-container/">Running Automated Script on NAS 24x7 Under LXD Container</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm documenting my journey of learning about Container Station and LXD, and how I successfully set up a long-running script in a Linux Container on my QNAP NAS. I've already created two YouTube videos to document the process, and now I'm working on changing the script into a Python one and making it do something to remind me of something daily. Follow my journey and learn how to set up your own Linux Container!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reversing-desensitization-and-dehumanization/">Reversing Desensitization And Dehumanization</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>As a human, it's important to keep our capacity to care and stay curious. As children, we learn to go from satisfying internal needs to external ones, forming healthy habits. As adults, it's easy to become distracted and stuck in the daily grind. I'm here to remind you to stay open to trying new things and exploring new paths. Read on to find out how to stay curious and engaged in life.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/making-every-morning-like-xmas-morning-non-stop-surprises-learning/">Making Every Morning Like Xmas Morning / Non-stop Surprises & Learning</a> (Tue Jun 21, 2022)
<br/>As an individual, I believe that every morning should be an opportunity to learn something new and experience surprises. We should be able to identify symbols of meaning and feelings, and have the ability to uncover what motivates us. Unfortunately, the gap between the haves and have-nots is widening, making it difficult to stay at the top or bottom of the hierarchy. To lead a stress-free life, I suggest staying in the middle.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/install-zfsutils-linux-to-prep-for-lxd-on-wsl/">Install ZFSUtils-Linux To Prep For LXD on WSL</a> (Mon May 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm on a mission to move my life forward, so I'm looking around the world to find the answers. Today, I'm focusing on LXD, a Linux container service, and I'm learning how to install ZFS Filesystem for Linux and the advantages of containers over virtual machines. Come along with me on my journey and read my blog post to see what I'm learning.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/">Teaching My Wife vim</a> (Sun Apr 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm teaching my wife vim, which I use to copy and paste text files and back up code to Github. I've been using vim for decades, and I'm excited to help my wife learn this timeless technology. I overcame my own negative experience with vim to understand its importance, and I'm enjoying the meaningful experience of helping my wife learn it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/google-analytics/">Google Analytics</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/terminal/">Terminal</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>