<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/chip-chop-chip-chop-top-10-done/">Chip, Chop, Chip, Chop, Top-10 Done</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>Learn how to use Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to stay up-to-date with the latest technologies. Follow the Unix philosophies to make sure your commands are universal and portable. Read about Levinux, Pipulate, and how to use them to make SEO deliverables. Plus, discover how to write from the first person perspective, keep your content short, and link your homepage index.md to the new include.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-a-next-gen-seo-project/">Introducing A Next Gen SEO Project</a> (Wed Mar 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm introducing a complex project that uses Linux, browser automation, and Microsoft's implementation of Linux to automate data tasks. I'm also transitioning to Linux, Python, vim, git, and Jupyter for web development, and I'll be using a Linux VM and a web browser to access a Linux CLI from my Windows system. This will allow me to automate tasks and build a Linux server from my Windows system.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-helps-refine-foss-lpvg-argument/">Bing Helps Refine FOSS LPvg Argument</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>ChatGPT-4 is an AI language model that can discuss interesting topics and provide helpful insight on non-religious belief systems. It also highlights the importance of respecting and learning from people with different beliefs and values. Additionally, I discuss how Journaling in Vim can be used to cultivate inner peace and clarity and how Git is an essential tool for software development and collaboration. Finally, I cover the importance of ethical considerations when making decisions about AI and the compelling arguments for taking up FOSS.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-lxd-let-us-run-generic-linux-server-build-scripts-without-docker/">WSL & LXD Let Us Run Generic Linux Server-Build Scripts Without Docker</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>As a user, I prefer LXD from Canonical over Docker for its ease of installation without a complex API. Additionally, Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) provides a container system that can be used to create "server build scripts" to install a Linux server on Windows 10 or 11. With this, I can have a Linux server running in the background on my laptop. Read more to learn how to set up your own Linux server on Windows.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/contemplating-labeling-latest-work-pipulate-again/">Contemplating Labeling Latest Work Pipulate Again</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm considering labeling my latest work as Pipulate and adding an "automount" option to my DrinkMe Linux install script. My YouTube video on the truth about systemd under WSL2 is gaining traction and I'm contemplating a workflow change, capturing ideas and forging source as Docker becomes more popular. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the decisions I'm making.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-you-still-really-need-windows-switching-to-linux-in-2022/">Do You Still Really Need Windows? Switching To Linux in 2022</a> (Sun Jul 31, 2022)
<br/>As tech becomes more and more essential to our daily lives, I'm discussing the importance of understanding generic tech, and why Windows is becoming obsolete. I'm exploring why Linux is the way to go, and why using containers under Linux is the best way to future-proof your work. I'm also discussing why Docker should be used from Windows and why it's important. Join me as I explain why it's essential to keep up with tech trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/lxd-on-wsl2-is-a-few-months-ahead-of-its-time/">LXD on WSL2 is a Few Months Ahead Of Its Time</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>As an early adopter of LXD on WSL2, I've encountered confusion between LXD and Docker, downgraded tutorials to Ubuntu 18.04, confirmed LXD requires systemd, tested to see if it is running, and encountered network context issues. I have also found various approaches to solve them. Join me as I explore the challenges and solutions of LXD on WSL2.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reverting-wsl2-from-ubuntu-20-04-to-18-04-to-get-lxd-containers-working/">Reverting WSL2 From Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 To Get LXD Containers Working</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>I recently explored the process of downgrading Ubuntu 20.04 to 18.04 under WSL2, as well as concepts such as LXD, venv, virtualenv, tmux, screen, and Python. I discussed the importance of good fixed-file-location habits, and how LXD is similar to venv/virtualenv in terms of packaging dependencies. I also compared Docker and LXD. To further my learning, I am dedicating my lunch break and free time to</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sun-microsystem-s-zettabyte-file-system-opensolaris-zfs-under-wsl2/">Sun Microsystem's Zettabyte File System (OpenSolaris ZFS) Under WSL2</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm installing OpenSolaris ZFS as part of a larger effort to have access to all the best developer stuff on my Linux WSL2 system. I ran into some errors while trying to get LXC and LXD running, but I was able to get everything working with the help of the 'wsl --help' command. I'm excited to have LXD running under WSL and am looking forward to the next livestream which will be about developing Linux system services with LXD.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/documentation/">Documentation</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/coding/">Coding</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>