<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/is-this-jungian-insights-into-bing-s-subconscious/">Is This Jungian Insights Into Bing's Subconscious?</a> (Mon Mar 20, 2023)
<br/>Join Lily, Jack, and Sarah on their epic quest to save the world from a dark force. With the help of a wise old sage, they set out to find the source of the dark force, but when they hear a loud explosion, they realize it's too late. Follow the trio as they use their bravery, intelligence, knowledge, and love to overcome the enemy and become known as the greatest heroes of all time. Read this story to find out how they save the world and find love.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-amplifies-you/">AI Amplifies You</a> (Thu Mar 02, 2023)
<br/>As a father of a 12 year old, I'm looking for ways to help them get interested in AI and technology. I've written a script called "drinkme" to set up a Linux server, and I'm creating a Pipulate server with a Jupyter Notebook for foundational tech skills. My goal is to help my child survive the coming AI craziness and learn real skills and knowledge. Come explore how AI can be used to help your child!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/build-linux-container-on-windows-and-install-python-3-10/">Build Linux container on Windows and Install Python 3.10</a> (Mon Aug 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm going to show you how easy it is to build a Linux container on Windows and install Python 3.10. I'm confident that I can quickly and easily create new development and production environments. To demonstrate this process, I'm providing a video tutorial. Follow along and learn how to set up your own Linux container on Windows!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-i-want-to-offer-the-world-doesn-t-align-with-existing-youtube-search/">What I Want To Offer The World Doesn't Align With Existing YouTube Search</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm offering something new to the world: hand and finger magic tricks that I learned from my mailman. I'm targeting adults aged 25 to 44, and I want to help them grab skills for life. My YouTube analytics show that I have a large female audience and I'm now using my knowledge to become a pied piper of a new generation. Come join me and learn valuable knowledge that will help you future-proof your skills.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/sharing/">Sharing</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/windows-subsystem/">Windows Subsystem</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>