<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/calcium-foss-make-flexible-tools/">Calcium & FOSS Make Flexible Tools</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I've been exploring text editors and I've come to the realization that they are close to being tools in our bodies like calcium-based structures like bones. I believe that text editors are the most personal of all software, and AI is evolving AI to express itself inside them along with us. We're designing ourselves in another sort of Cambrian Explosion. Read my blog post to discover why I'm an optimist despite pervasive pessimistic arguments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rid-yourself-of-imposter-syndrome-and-start-living-your-best-life/">Rid Yourself of Imposter Syndrome and Start Living Your Best Life</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I never really became an entrepreneur, but I do use their tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git to build my projects and occasionally consider Kickstarting campaign. I no longer suffer from imposter syndrome, as I have learned that I am good enough and can be proud of my work. I now show others that it is possible to follow their dreams and make a difference, without being an assholepreneur. LPvg gives me the tools I need to build and stay ahead of the curve. Join me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/do-ais-work-for-cats/">Do AIs Work For Cats?</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the fascinating world of cats, AI, and the controversial topics of politics, religion, social justice, climate change, and animal rights. Through conversations with ChatGPT-4, I investigate the complex relationship between cats and humans, the top 10 most famous fish, and the top five most mysterious fish. I also explore the natural predators of aye-ayes, platypuses, narwhals, okapis, and axolotls.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/reconstructing-math-under-python-for-the-syntactically-ambiguous-challenged/">Reconstructing Math Under Python for The Syntactically Ambiguous Challenged</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring some of the most fascinating and challenging questions in science today, from the Theory of Everything to Dark Matter and Dark Energy. I'm also looking into physical factors such as temperature, pressure and electric fields, and the ambitious experiments planned to answer these questions. I'm passionate about learning and encourage others to pursue physics and discover something amazing!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-the-skinny-on-skinny-bob-via-youtube-user-ivan0135/">Seeking the Skinny on Skinny Bob via YouTube user ivan0135</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibility that Skinny Bob type aliens may be from an extra-dimensional reality or consciousness, and I'm considering four different scenarios to explain their origin. I've given each scenario a score out of 10, and I'm looking for corroborating evidence to verify my findings. Join me on my journey to uncover the truth about Skinny Bob type aliens!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/can-casimir-force-induced-metasurface-torque-power-a-zero-point-turbine/">Can Casimir Force Induced Metasurface Torque Power a Zero Point Turbine?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I recently explored the possibility of engineering a metasurface to create torque and spin a disk using Casimir force, but found that there were no papers directly addressing this question. I then discussed the implications of Newton's First Law of Motion and the First and Second Laws of Thermodynamics, and read two papers by Professor Barash from MIT about zero point energy and dark matter. I also discussed the relationship between evolution and the Second Law of Thermodynamics and concluded that it is consistent.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/still-figuring-out-next-step-what-i-want-at-52/">Still Figuring Out Next Step & What I Want at 52</a> (Thu Oct 20, 2022)
<br/>At 52, I'm still trying to figure out my life and how to make a living without taking advantage of others. I'm exploring how human beings can evolve in a post-scarcity world and creating an unending stream of interesting experiences. I'm grateful to be alive and functional in society and am looking for my next step.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-i-grew-a-backbone-story-of-the-samurai-mudskipper/">When I Grew a Backbone, Story of The Samurai Mudskipper</a> (Mon May 16, 2022)
<br/>Mike Levin, an old warrior, tells his child a story about the evolution of the backbone. He explains that the backbone developed over a long period of time, beginning with single-celled organisms and ending with the Cambrian Explosion. Mike then tells his child that he can grow a backbone and map out the life of a single being, starting with the present. With this story, Mike hopes to prepare his child for the predators of the future. Read this blog post to learn more about the evolution</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/child/">Child</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/strategy/">Strategy</a></div></div>