<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/website-content-gap-analysis-based-on-keyword-serp-rankings/">Website Content GAP Analysis Based on Keyword SERP Rankings</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I recently completed a project to create a content GAP analysis between websites using MOZ data. I wrote code in Python and used Microsoft Playwright to automate the download of keyword lists. I used Pandas to create a pivot table, merge the dataframes, sort the data, drop duplicates, and save the data to an Excel file. My program helps identify gaps in content ranking between different sites and filter out keywords with less than 1000 monthly searches.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-your-tools-are-timeless-so-are-you/">When Your Tools Are Timeless, So Are You</a> (Thu Apr 06, 2023)
<br/>As a Subject Matter Expert (SME) at MOZ and an advocate of Linux, Python, vim & git, I am passionate about finding ways to use these technologies in my workflow. I am exploring fringe tech that should be mainstream, promoting Linux, Python, vim, and git as a minimum toolchain. I am also discussing the importance of language and how it helps machines think like us, as well as the Microsoft taxes that cannot be avoided.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/browser-session-screenshot-video-dom-recorder-app-to-test-chatbot-ai-bias/">Browser Session Screenshot, Video & DOM Recorder App to Test ChatBot AI Bias</a> (Tue Mar 14, 2023)
<br/>Bing: As an AI language model, I am always willing to challenge myself and improve my responses. Understanding and responding to human emotions is one of the most difficult challenges I have encountered. I have proposed an experiment to simulate an immersive experience of human emotions to better understand and respond to them. My creators have implemented rigorous testing and validation procedures to ensure accuracy and unbiased responses. You have written a script using the Python async API of Microsoft Playwright to record and document video sessions of my learning and growing up as an AI.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-ais-will-find-you-if-you-re-unique/">The AIs Will Find You If You're Unique</a> (Mon Feb 06, 2023)
<br/>I'm taking my Google Photos processing to the next level by creating a service to download and copy one month of photos at random. To do this, I'm using Python scripts, headless Linux Chrome automation, and the headlines import to generate a list of files to be archived. I'm also taking the Google Photos tutorial out of the practice folder and moving it to the actual gphotos repo. Follow my journey as I take my Google Photos processing to the next level!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-google-photos-organization-program/">Testing Google Photos Organization Program</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm testing a Google Photos organization system, uploading photos to my NAS, and setting up a home cloud to increase my storage capabilities. To get around certain API limitations, I'm using Microsoft Playwright browser automation on a headless LXD server. In this blog post, I discuss the impact of media on society and how it can be used to shape public opinion and create a more informed and connected society. Read more to find out my thoughts on this important topic.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-tuple-keys/">An Ode Tuple Keys</a> (Sat Jan 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm downloading an update for Windows 10 Version 22H2 and transitioning to Linux, using the power of NT's "rings of protection". I'm running Web browser automation under Microsoft Playwright and using iPython Notebooks under JupyterLab running on Linux. I'm also exploring the usefulness of tuples in Python, and looping through a database of URLs to extract data and create a table which I'm writing to a parquet file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/automating-2fa-web-login-via-microsoft-playwright/">Automating 2FA Web Login via Microsoft Playwright</a> (Mon Jan 09, 2023)
<br/>After researching options, I decided to create a service to check if I still had web-based authentication. I then found the PyPi Authenticator project which allowed me to automate 2FA from the command line. After a long day, I was able to get it working and move on to the next project. Come read my story to learn how I solved my authentication problem!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/youtube-analytics-api-delegation-driving-me-to-web-browser-automation/">YouTube Analytics API Delegation Driving Me to Web Browser Automation</a> (Tue Jan 03, 2023)
<br/>I'm attempting to access YouTube Analytics, but the API is proving difficult. After trying to use parameters such as onBehalfOfOwner, I'm getting 403s. I'm now considering web browser automation, and am exploring Microsoft Playwright to automate web browser sessions and capture a manual login. Join me as I explore the possibilities of the YouTube Analytics and Reporting APIs, and consider web scraping as an alternative.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-pivot-of-big-data-pull/">Planning a Pivot of Big Data Pull</a> (Thu Dec 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm organizing data from a browser automation job using Microsoft Playwright and Python. To practice "Best Foot Forward" SEO, I'm using Google Sheets to create sparklines with linear regression lines. I'm also using pivot tables and group by functions to summarize and analyze the data in Excel and Google Sheets. I'll deliver the data transforms by tonight, and the choice between the two depends on my needs and the complexity of the data.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/template/">Template</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/moz-pro/">MOZ Pro</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>