<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-the-skinny-on-skinny-bob-via-youtube-user-ivan0135/">Seeking the Skinny on Skinny Bob via YouTube user ivan0135</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibility that Skinny Bob type aliens may be from an extra-dimensional reality or consciousness, and I'm considering four different scenarios to explain their origin. I've given each scenario a score out of 10, and I'm looking for corroborating evidence to verify my findings. Join me on my journey to uncover the truth about Skinny Bob type aliens!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helping-me-visualize-the-future-unknown-unknowns/">ChatGPT Helping Me Visualize The Future (Unknown Unknowns)</a> (Sun Dec 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm using ChatGPT to help me visualize the future, tell stories, and articulate the Hero's Journey. I'm learning valuable lessons like it's never too late, and I'm pushing Linux, Python, vim, and git into the unconscious and automatic quadrant so I can use them like I use spoken language or driving. I'm testing to see if ChatGPT is really a game-changer.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/practicing-what-i-preach/">Practicing What I Preach</a> (Sat Oct 15, 2022)
<br/>I've been busy with work and family, but I'm recommitting to writing in my journal. I'm exploring the LXD Linux Container Jupyter platform, which has been challenging but rewarding, and Microsoft's NT system, which has enabled the creation of protection rings and running concurrent operating systems. I'm amazed at how Microsoft is transitioning into the future, and I'm reflecting on the fundamentals of object-oriented and concurrency that remain.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/october-first-no-gamma-burst-so-far-so-good/">October First No Gamma Burst... So Far So Good.</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>As I move to New York City on October 1, 2022, I'm determined to make the most of the opportunities, no matter the cost of living. Despite any filter events that have come my way, I'm staying positive and hopeful for the future. I'm grateful for my survival and want to reach a high level of prosperity. Join me as I document my journey to success in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sub-linux-sub-love-so-learn/">Sub-Linux Sub-Love So-Learn</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I've been on YouTube since 2006, and now I'm embracing free and open source software. I'm encouraging people to escape Windows, Mac and proprietary software, and to write a daily journal in vim. I'm talking more to myself and sharing some of my personal and proprietary information, but with a positive spin. I'm taking advice from Rafiki and learning from the past to improve my future. Join me on this journey and discover how to make the most of free and open source software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/refresh-your-mind-with-the-lxd-api/">Refresh Your Mind With The LXD API</a> (Mon Jul 18, 2022)
<br/>Recently, I moved back to New York City and have been struggling both emotionally and financially. To thrive in tomorrow's world, I'm learning the LXD API to create containers and refresh my mind. With the lxc command, I can easily create a new container, even adding a user and password if I want. I'm amazed at how quickly I can create a container, and can't wait to see what the future holds.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/learning-linux-lesson-2-run-run-it-from-cli/">Learning Linux Lesson #2: RUN! Run it from CLI!</a> (Tue Jun 07, 2022)
<br/>As someone who knows that Linux is the future, I'm here to tell you that learning it doesn't have to be intimidating. With the help of commands like ls, cd, and pwd, you can easily navigate the command-line interface. And with Windows 11, it's easier than ever to install Linux. So take my advice and join the future of computing!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/when-i-grew-a-backbone-story-of-the-samurai-mudskipper/">When I Grew a Backbone, Story of The Samurai Mudskipper</a> (Mon May 16, 2022)
<br/>Mike Levin, an old warrior, tells his child a story about the evolution of the backbone. He explains that the backbone developed over a long period of time, beginning with single-celled organisms and ending with the Cambrian Explosion. Mike then tells his child that he can grow a backbone and map out the life of a single being, starting with the present. With this story, Mike hopes to prepare his child for the predators of the future. Read this blog post to learn more about the evolution</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/goal/">Goals</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/tutorial/">Tutorial</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>