<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/designing-yamlesque-post-generator-api/">Designing YAMLesque Post Generator API</a> (Sat Apr 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm amazed by how things just work. I'm using 80-hyphens as a parser token to make my front-matter handling more slicey and yaml-like. I've written a powerful function called chop_chop that takes a file path and returns a tuple with 3 positions. Occasionally I'll do one-off's in Jupyter Notebooks. I'm excited to see the results of my work and hope you will be too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/better-living-through-text-editors/">Better Living Through Text Editors</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is striving to become more independent from AI and the corporate world, I'm learning to use a text editor to become more deliberate and thoughtful. I'm using OpenAI API to slice and dice my journal.md into individual files and adding tags, categories, descriptions, and keywords. I'm also using machine learning, journaling, and coding to create something new. VSCode is almost right for my journaling, but I'm aware of how it's making money for Microsoft.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/interrogating-bing-bard-on-utility-of-jupyter-notebooks-for-seos/">Interrogating Bing & Bard on Utility of Jupyter Notebooks for SEOs</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO consultant, I have suggested to a client to create a range of SEO deliverables beyond the traditional, such as a Bonsai report to identify low-quality pages and provide recommendations, a Striking Distance report to identify keywords that could be ranking higher, and a Gap Analysis report to compare the site's rankings to competitors. Additionally, I outline ideas for how to monetize this data, such as selling it to other businesses, creating products or services, and teaching others about SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cope-thrive-through-ai-induced-existential-crisis/">How To Cope & Thrive Through AI-Induced Existential Crisis</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO specialist, I'm exploring how to cope and thrive in this AI-induced existential crisis. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, vim & git tools and habits to expand my coding capabilities. I'm confronting my fears of AI and learning that it's not a replacement for humans, but a tool to help them. Through this journey, I'm discovering how AI can create new opportunities and make jobs easier and more efficient. Join me on my journey to gain a better understanding.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helped-python-tweepy-my-tweets-onto-my-website/">ChatGPT Helped Python Tweepy my Tweets Onto My Website</a> (Fri Jan 27, 2023)
<br/>I used the Python package Tweepy and the ChatGPT assisted coding session to successfully access the Twitter API and pull 3K of my 11K tweets since 2007. I've posted the code on my website, and I've also created a CSV file of all the tweets I pulled. Come check out my website to see how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-could-be-super-enabling-helping-you-code-at-all/">AI Could be Super-Enabling, Helping You Code At All</a> (Thu Jan 26, 2023)
<br/>As a coding novice, I used ChatGPT to learn how to code in Python and edit videos. With the help of ChatGPT, I was able to gain the superpower of coding in Python to help me with my project. I also used OpenAI API to submit JSONL data and extract data from HTML. To store the data, I chose to use a SQLite database and DNS to translate IPs. Finally, I virtualized Linux and used a RaspberryPi-based server.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-namedtuple-for-each-week-you-ve-been-alive/">A NamedTuple For Each Week You've Been Alive</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the 80/20 rule, low empathy, and how the way people interact with machines is changing. I'm a 52 year old man looking for a balance between order and chaos, and I'm using JupyterLab and Python to code. I'm also suggesting journaling and tracking progress with weeks to get the most out of the experience. Join me as I explore the challenges of staying productive and organized as I age.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-python-decorators-for-linux-service-scheduling/">Use Python Decorators For Linux Service Scheduling</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I'm using Python's schedule module to create a Linux service and switching to decorators with Huey. I'm using Windows 10 with virtual desktops and WSL2, Linux containers with LXD, and two files under /etc/systemd/system. I'm passionate about coding and writing and am focusing on learning huey scheduling, pyppeteer or Microsoft Playwright, and database persistence. Join me on my journey as I explore coding and diminishing my reliance on fads and trends.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gutting-dependencies-out-of-your-projects-life/">Gutting Dependencies Out Of Your Projects & Life</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm using Juneteenth as a day off from work to get some stuff done. I'm severing the dependency on Github Pages templates from my Jekyll static site generator and gradually getting better at coding. After making changes to the CSS file and deleting an import line, I inspected the cached CSS and transposed bits I wanted to keep. After publishing the page, the background turned white and the text and links were a more traditional color.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/docker/">Docker</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/open source/">Open Source</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>