<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-personal-seo-to-ai-via-foss-on-lpvg-transition-plan/">My Personal SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg Transition Plan</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>This blog post outlines a plan for transitioning from SEO to AI via FOSS on LPvg. I will be familiarizing readers with Moz's products and teaching them how to use tools like Vim and JupyterLab to create a nomadic computing environment that is hardware and vendor independent. I will provide a prescribed, vetted, and proven process to become more technical and free of Google, Microsoft, and other paid services.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/logging-in-refresh-error-invalid-grant-token-has-been-expired-or-revoked/">Logging in... Refresh error! invalid_grant: Token has been expired or revoked.</a> (Wed Mar 08, 2023)
<br/>As a freelance graphic designer, I have faced many challenges and obstacles in my career. I recently learned about Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices, which allow me to store and access my files without relying on big corporations. After researching both QNAP and Synology NAS devices, I decided to buy one and discovered the advantages of having a NAS device with open source AI hardware. I'm optimistic that home NAS-like products will become more common.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-few-things-about-me/">A Few Things About Me</a> (Fri Feb 17, 2023)
<br/>As a He/Him living in Staten Island, NYC, I live by the motto "What's Most Broken, Where's The Biggest Bang for The Buck, What Plates Need Spinning". My life is centered around my kid, Linux, Python, vim & git, and daily reading & writing. If I were to participate in an eating contest, Blue Cheese & Skittles would be my choice. I've experienced some truly magical moments.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/i-ll-just-put-this-in-my-usr-local-sbin/">I'll Just Put This In My /usr/local/sbin/</a> (Sat Jun 18, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed my journal from .txt to .md to be compatible with my new content management system. I'm excited to have discovered this system which allows me to back up my system customizations with a vim repo, and to edit all files listed in a csv file at once. I'm now sharing this with the world - join me to learn how to work this way and make the most of your system!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-are-constantly-channeling/">You Are Constantly Channeling</a> (Sat May 07, 2022)
<br/>I'm constantly channeling, but I don't always recognize it. My sensitivity levels have been lowered for my own peace of mind, but that doesn't mean I'm not still receiving messages. In this blog post, I'm capturing a droplet of that messaging and sharing it with you, so you can understand how consciousness works and why it's important to pay attention to these signals. Come explore this new normal with me.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/marketing/">Marketing</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/knowledge/">Knowledge</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>