<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/live-streaming-with-github-copilot-in-neovim-for-motivation/">Live-streaming With Github Copilot in NeoVim for Motivation</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm experimenting with NeoVim, a vim-compatible fork, to live-stream in my journal. I'm also exploring the Meissner and Schwinger effects to create more thrust. To achieve my goals, I'm using Linux, Python, Vim, and Git. I'm creating an updated graphic of my stack to help others succeed. Join me as I dive head-first into my project tomorrow.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-start-an-ai-novel-about-dystopizon-with-chatgpt/">Let's Start an AI-Novel About Dystopizon with ChatGPT</a> (Fri Feb 10, 2023)
<br/>I'm Mike Levin, an SEO living in New York City. I'm exploring the use of ChatGPT to create a real-time journal of a person's life by setting up a schedule and prompts with Python. My goal is to find a way to communicate with someone without being monitored by the corporation. To do this, I suggest using a smartwatch and gradually building trust with the user. Come explore how I'm using ChatGPT to pursue autonomy and freedom.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-road-to-microsoft-semi-independence/">The Road to Microsoft Semi-Independence</a> (Tue Jan 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on a project to promote Free and Open Source SEO Software and show people how to set up a server on their Windows 10 or 11 laptops. I'm encouraging people to use Linux as a standard feature on Windows 10 and 11 via the Windows Subsystem for Linux and to be aware of Microsoft's paid services. I'm suggesting using vim instead of VSCode, as it is an industry standard and not tied to a vendor.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-a-tiktok-script/">Working on a TikTok Script</a> (Thu Sep 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm an infotech carpenter teaching people how to become an Information Age Samurai by mastering the right skillset and toolset. I'm providing a script to install Jupyter on Linux, and a guide to help people navigate the dense infotech forest. I'm also sharing my experience to help others find their way in life, and I'm learning to plan my recovery from distractions as a sort of performance-art.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/run-lxd-linux-containers-on-windows-wsl-2-ubuntu-20-04-and-22-04/">Run LXD Linux Containers on Windows WSL 2 Ubuntu 20.04 and 22.04</a> (Fri Aug 12, 2022)
<br/>This guide helps readers quickly and happily settle into a new digital home, free from vendor tyranny, using Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) and vendor-provided components like Github or Bitbucket. I use Windows machines as a host, WSL 2 to host Linux containers, and sprinkle my own customizations, including a Microsoft Network SAMBA/CIFS Shared Drive. I'm a big fan of LXD, the Linux Kernel Virtual Machine from Canonical.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/sun-microsystem-s-zettabyte-file-system-opensolaris-zfs-under-wsl2/">Sun Microsystem's Zettabyte File System (OpenSolaris ZFS) Under WSL2</a> (Tue Jun 14, 2022)
<br/>I'm installing OpenSolaris ZFS as part of a larger effort to have access to all the best developer stuff on my Linux WSL2 system. I ran into some errors while trying to get LXC and LXD running, but I was able to get everything working with the help of the 'wsl --help' command. I'm excited to have LXD running under WSL and am looking forward to the next livestream which will be about developing Linux system services with LXD.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/knowledge/">Knowledge</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/strength/">Strengths</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>