<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/why-markdown-why-yaml-why-they-re-great-together/">Why Markdown? Why YAML? Why They're Great Together!</a> (Thu May 04, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss why I chose to use Markdown and YAML together for my 1-textfile-for-life system. I explain why Markdown is popular and why YAML is a great serialization format that is human-readable. I also discuss the benefits of using a static site generator like Jekyll and how YAMLchop can help with creating a 1000-page site from 1 file. Finally, I explore how to render the markdown.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-casual-persistent-dict-key-value-nosql-in-python-better-than-sqlitedict/">Seeking Casual Persistent dict Key-Value NoSQL in Python Better Than SqliteDict</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>In this blog post, I discuss the programming API and how it relates to list, dicts, and tuples. I explain how dicts are most similar to key-value databases and explore two possible options for a NoSQL or key-value database in Python with an API similar to a standard Python dict. I provide information and examples on how to use Couchbase Lite Python SDK and SqliteDict API for a casual key/value store.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/enabling-vim-s-visual-block-mode-on-linux-wsl-ctrl-v/">Enabling vim's Visual Block mode on Linux WSL (Ctrl+v)</a> (Wed May 11, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered a powerful feature of vim called Visual Block mode, which allows you to quickly add text to multiple lines. However, this feature wasn't available in the Microsoft Terminal program when running vim under Linux in Windows via WSL. After a few steps, I was determined to figure out how to activate this feature and eventually succeeded. Learn how I overcame the challenge and how you can activate Visual Block mode in vim.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/processing/">Processing</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/vendor/">Vendors</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>