<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rid-yourself-of-imposter-syndrome-and-start-living-your-best-life/">Rid Yourself of Imposter Syndrome and Start Living Your Best Life</a> (Mon Apr 10, 2023)
<br/>I never really became an entrepreneur, but I do use their tools such as Linux, Python, vim & git to build my projects and occasionally consider Kickstarting campaign. I no longer suffer from imposter syndrome, as I have learned that I am good enough and can be proud of my work. I now show others that it is possible to follow their dreams and make a difference, without being an assholepreneur. LPvg gives me the tools I need to build and stay ahead of the curve. Join me.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/time-dilating-galactic-nomads-slingshotting-around-outer-rim-of-galactic-plane/">Time Dilating Galactic Nomads Slingshotting Around Outer Rim of Galactic Plane</a> (Fri Mar 24, 2023)
<br/>I was part of a team of researchers studying the mysterious Mushroom Mother, an organism with a role in the galaxy. We were shocked to discover that the Myco Raiders had come to plunder it, so we acted quickly to modify the spores and make them toxic to the Raiders. In the end, our efforts were successful and the Mushroom Mother was able to recover. Join me on this journey of exploration, discovery, and success as I tell the story of our mission to save the Mushroom Mother.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plotting-a-post-scarcity-future-for-humanity-with-chatgpt/">Plotting a Post-Scarcity Future for Humanity with ChatGPT</a> (Tue Feb 14, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the x10, x100 rule of perception and how it might replace Google. With OpenAI's release of the first AI in 2022, I'm looking at how ChatGPT can help me create an AI sidekick persona and a roadmap for success. I'm also advocating for free and open-source software and the power of combining human abilities with technology. Join me as I discuss how to create a sustainable retirement gig.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/expanding-my-google-suggest-jupyter-notebook-to-include-stop-words/">Expanding My Google Suggest Jupyter Notebook to Include Stop Words</a> (Sun Feb 05, 2023)
<br/>I recently moved my Google Photos project to a server running LXD Linux and am refining my Google Suggest probing to include stop words. I'm also exploring the idea of switching my project to Jupyter Notebook based locally. I'm using the same technique on my OhAwf repo and it's proving to be successful. Read more to find out how I'm making this transition and the success I'm having with it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rotating-logo-returns-and-key-advice-in-life/">Rotating Logo Returns and Key Advice in Life</a> (Sat Dec 17, 2022)
<br/>Today is the day to put my rotating logo back on the homepage with a bit of animation. I believe that life is a delicate balance of pushing past the hard bits, thinking clearly, journaling, using the 80/20-rule, and avoiding rabbit-holes. We must also be aware of the false dichotomies that label people and the power of those who oppose peace. Times are changing and the public is being held down, but I'm confident that we can break through.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-things-easy/">Are Things Easy?</a> (Mon Nov 07, 2022)
<br/>As a hardworking individual, I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I choose to have a smartphone in my life and give in to collective consciousness, or do I resist corporate overloads and maintain my own free will? It's a trade-off, as having a smartphone could lead to an arguably better life, but is it really worth it? Read on to explore the implications of this complex decision and discover how to draw a line in the sand.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/october-first-no-gamma-burst-so-far-so-good/">October First No Gamma Burst... So Far So Good.</a> (Sat Oct 01, 2022)
<br/>As I move to New York City on October 1, 2022, I'm determined to make the most of the opportunities, no matter the cost of living. Despite any filter events that have come my way, I'm staying positive and hopeful for the future. I'm grateful for my survival and want to reach a high level of prosperity. Join me as I document my journey to success in this blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/plot-the-awakening-rig-for-youtube-success/">Plot The Awakening / Rig For YouTube Success</a> (Fri Aug 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking steps to fight chaos and increase my focus by switching apps with the taskbar, deleting everything from my start menu, hiding all alerts, and turning off my clock. In this series of quick videos, I'll be teaching viewers how to make the command line interface (CLI) their new home, starting with the best modern habits for focus and productivity. Additionally, I'll be discussing the mind control battle between Apple, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/boosting-youtube-watch-time-youtube-analytics/">Boosting YouTube Watch Time / YouTube Analytics</a> (Tue May 31, 2022)
<br/>As the last day of May approaches, I'm trying to figure out how to make extra money and boost my YouTube watch time and analytics. To do this, I need to understand my subject-matter, audience, and how to convey the love-worthiness of things. I'm also exploring the criss-crossing elements of success and how to teach a narcissist. Join me on my journey to figure out the answers.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/studies-on-the-effect-of-negativity/">Studies On The Effect Of Negativity</a> (Thu Apr 21, 2022)
<br/>As a Harvard University researcher, I recently completed a 25-year study that concluded that the people around us have a major impact on our success - up to 95%! I invite you to read more about my findings and how they can help you reach your goals.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/open-source/">Open Source</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/skill/">Skills</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>