<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/starting-a-new-blogging-system-create-a-title-field-under-date-to-release/">Starting a New Blogging System (create a title field under date to release)</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new journal entry system with the 80-long hyphen as a blog-slicer token and place-holder for the Liquid template system. I'm using Jekyll, an open source static site generator, and a macro system to ensure reverse-chronological entries.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-free-open-source-seo-software-youtube-reply/">Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO Software YouTube Reply</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>Join me in developing Pipulate, an open-source SEO software powered by Linux, Python, JupyterLab, and Raspberry Pi's. I'm creating a 24/7 service to do SERP scraping, HTML report emailing, and more. Plus, I'm working on a way to simplify the scripts and update the W - come join me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-subsystem-for-linux-is-now-available-in-the-microsoft-store/">Windows Subsystem for Linux is now available in the Microsoft Store!</a> (Wed Dec 28, 2022)
<br/>Upgrade to Windows Subsystem for Linux now available in the Microsoft Store! Get the latest updates and faster performance with 'wsl.exe --update' or a visit to the Microsoft Store page. For more information, visit the Microsoft Store info page to learn how to get the most out of WSL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-ubuntu-18-04-and-ubuntu-20-04-simultaneously-under-wsl-2/">Running Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04 Simultaneously Under WSL 2</a> (Sat Sep 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my Windows taskbar to include a BASH Shell, Jupyter and Web browser, and it's become part of my daily routine. I had to decide whether to keep one copy of Linux running under WSL, so I chose to run both 18.04 and 20.04 side-by-side. Follow me as I take you through my obsessive compulsive journey of updating my taskbar and deciding which Linux OS to run.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-gnu-screen-to-monitor-linux-system-daemon-service/">Using GNU Screen to Monitor Linux System Daemon Service</a> (Fri Jul 29, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to install Linux on Windows machines and get Linux services running under GNU Screen under an LXD Container. Discover the advantages of mastering generic Linux tech over web development and how to get started. I provide an example of a Python script to monitor a Linux system daemon service, and I walk you through the steps for installing Ubuntu 18.04, updating the file /etc/systemd/system/pulse.service, installing the program screen.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-updates-kb5014699-kb5013887-lxd-on-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04/">Windows Updates KB5014699 & KB5013887 & LXD on WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>After a long update process, I realized the Windows Updates I had downloaded weren't what I was looking for. I then tried to get LXD running under WSL2 on Ubuntu 20.04 but was unsuccessful. Switching to Ubuntu 18.04 allowed me to get LXD running, but now I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I make my next video out of the arts? Read my blog post to find out what I decide!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/templatizing-google-analytics-measurement-id-in-jekyll-github-pages/">Templatizing Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID in Jekyll Github Pages</a> (Mon May 02, 2022)
<br/>I have developed a system using Jekyll and Liquid template language to templatize the Google Analytics MEASUREMENT ID for my websites. To keep track of them, I wrote Python scripts to parse through the lines in sites.txt and create a `_config.yml` file for each website. With this system, I have a master list of my sites and a quick way to update the information.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/static site generator/">Static Site Generator</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/download/">Download</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>