<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/a-namedtuple-for-each-week-you-ve-been-alive/">A NamedTuple For Each Week You've Been Alive</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the 80/20 rule, low empathy, and how the way people interact with machines is changing. I'm a 52 year old man looking for a balance between order and chaos, and I'm using JupyterLab and Python to code. I'm also suggesting journaling and tracking progress with weeks to get the most out of the experience. Join me as I explore the challenges of staying productive and organized as I age.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-two-maxwell-s-of-light-you-can-t-take-it-with-you/">The Two Maxwell's of Light / You Can't Take It With You</a> (Sun Sep 18, 2022)
<br/>Reflecting on the power of wisdom over material possessions, I explore the mysteries of science such as non-locality and the particle/wave duality of light particles first established by James Clerk Maxwell and Michael Faraday in the 1800s. Max Planck's discovery of the planck-unit further perplexed us, and I express my hope to better explain this to my child in the future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-multiple-blogs-within-one-github-pages-site/">Planning Multiple Blogs Within One Github Pages Site</a> (Thu Sep 01, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning to use Github Pages to host multiple blogs in one site, and I'm considering changes to my old content and URLs, as well as adding tags, a "big list" of blog posts, pagination, and thumbnail embeds. My goal is to create a website that provides the wisdom of the ages, allowing for objective thought and accessible through any device or tablet. Come explore my digital portal and join me in creating a space of freedom and objectivity.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-cha-gonna-do-when-you-re-fifty-two/">What'cha Gonna Do When You're Fifty Two?</a> (Sat Aug 27, 2022)
<br/>On my 52nd birthday, I'm reflecting on my life and the changes that have occurred. I was pleasantly surprised to receive 6 months of free Disney+ from Verizon, and I watched She Hulk and Obi-wan, which brought tears to my eyes. I'm pushing forward with Operation ELTgd and the principle of 'Power Good', to help myself, those in my life, and the world. As a birthday gift to myself, I'm making a Bagel-All-The-Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/storytime-with-mic-lovin-the-wizard-of-oz-s-redemption-story-arc/">Storytime with Mic Lovin' - The Wizard of Oz's Redemption Story Arc</a> (Wed Jun 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm Mic Lovin' and I'm here to share the redemption arc of The Wizard of Oz from L. Frank Baum's fourteen-book series. Join me as I explore how Dorothy and Ozma's coming of age adventures shape them into dynamic personalities, while The Wizard learns real magic from Glinda the Good Witch of The North. Follow my journey as I create my own story arc and learn from the Good Linux of the GNUrth.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-if-my-life-were-just-beginning-now/">What If My Life Were Just Beginning Now?</a> (Fri May 06, 2022)
<br/>I'm 51 years old and have gained a lot of wisdom over the years. From understanding my likes and dislikes and the role of major events in my life, to recognizing the importance of financial security, I have learned a lot. I regret not taking up Python sooner, and I'm grateful for the opportunities Unix has given me. Despite the ups and downs, I wouldn't change my path and am content with how things have turned out. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey and</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/trick/">Tricks</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/progress/">Progress</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>