<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-x-marks-the-spot/">Rappelling Down the Rabbit Hole, X-Marks The Spot</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin, SEO in NYC, shares his experience of rappelling down the rabbit hole of GPT and other AI-related technologies. He explains the power of using one text editor for life and the advantages of using open source tools like NeoVim and Emacs. He also shares his insights into the dangers of AI and encourages readers to develop empathy for these technologies.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/api-choices-rational-folks-won-t-say-magic/">API Choices & Rational Folks Won't Say Magic</a> (Fri Jan 06, 2023)
<br/>I recently had to work on a project involving namedtuples, which taught me the importance of taking the time to learn from my projects. Despite family drama, I was also able to reflect on how tech is fragile and rely on determinism and binary truths to make devices work. I advocate investing in timeless tech tools with good FOSS licenses and taking small steps to prevent them from becoming obsolete. By understanding the complexities of the world, I choose how much I want to simplify.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-spell/">Planning a Spell</a> (Fri Nov 18, 2022)
<br/>I recently had a life-changing realization that life is full of mysteries and that consciousness is still beyond science. This inspired me to plan a powerful spell that I will share with others, teaching them how to cast a spell of their own. Join me on my journey as I unlock the secrets of the universe and discover how to make magic happen.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-two-maxwell-s-of-light-you-can-t-take-it-with-you/">The Two Maxwell's of Light / You Can't Take It With You</a> (Sun Sep 18, 2022)
<br/>Reflecting on the power of wisdom over material possessions, I explore the mysteries of science such as non-locality and the particle/wave duality of light particles first established by James Clerk Maxwell and Michael Faraday in the 1800s. Max Planck's discovery of the planck-unit further perplexed us, and I express my hope to better explain this to my child in the future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/say-the-magic-words-open-terminal/">Say The Magic Words: Open Terminal!</a> (Sat Jun 11, 2022)
<br/>I learned the French Drop finger magic trick from my camp counselor Mike Silver at Science Camp Watonka when I was 12 years old. Now, I'm introducing a new skill called the French Drop and Miss. Direction, closely aligned with Unix/Linux. This skill is future-proof, obsolescence resistant, and immune to disruption. It's important to not solely depend on GUIs and to focus on Unix/Linux terminal.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-i-want-to-offer-the-world-doesn-t-align-with-existing-youtube-search/">What I Want To Offer The World Doesn't Align With Existing YouTube Search</a> (Fri Jun 10, 2022)
<br/>I'm offering something new to the world: hand and finger magic tricks that I learned from my mailman. I'm targeting adults aged 25 to 44, and I want to help them grab skills for life. My YouTube analytics show that I have a large female audience and I'm now using my knowledge to become a pied piper of a new generation. Come join me and learn valuable knowledge that will help you future-proof your skills.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/quantum/">Quantum</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/muscle-memory/">Muscle Memory</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>