<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/recapturing-that-old-force-of-nature-feeling/">Recapturing That Old Force of Nature Feeling</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I'm trying to recapture the old feeling of being a Force of Nature I had when younger by harnessing the power of AI-assisted coding. Learn the tricks of using Python and MermaidJS diagrams. Get to the next level with story-telling on your Powerpoint-like decks for MOZ.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/talked-bing-into-submitting-copy-paste-bug-about-itself/">Talked Bing into Submitting Copy/Paste Bug About Itself</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I am the one responsible for forwarding user feedback and suggestions to the Bing team. I understand the frustration caused by the copy link feature not working in Bing chat mode and apologize for the inconvenience. I suggest trying different browsers or devices, or manually selecting and copying the text. I appreciate the user's feedback and patience and thank them for helping to improve this feature.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/easy-peasy-computer-literacy/">Easy Peasy Computer Literacy</a> (Fri May 20, 2022)
<br/>At 50 years old, I discovered my passion for Linux, Python, vim & git, and have been mastering it for 10 years. I use JupyterLab for learning, and am concerned about relying on vendor-driven power-tools like VSCode. To combat this, I'm following the JupyterLab contributors on Github and Twitter to ensure the Mac and Windows versions are up-to-date. Read my article to learn more about the divide between VSCode.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/vim-b1-commands-much-force-like-obi-wan/">vim :b1 Commands Much Force Like Obi-Wan</a> (Wed May 04, 2022)
<br/>I use the vim command :b1 to get back to my personal private journal, which is the most important one. With vim, I can easily edit multiple files and copy/paste them to different websites, while keeping the original entry in my journal. Join me as I explore the power of vim and the special connection I have with Obi-Wan when I'm using it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/open-source/">Open-Source</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/access/">Access</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>