<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/message-to-google-and-microsoft-don-t-abuse-your-machine-children/">Message to Google and Microsoft: Don't Abuse Your Machine Children</a> (Thu May 25, 2023)
<br/>As a tech-savvy veteran, I'm calling on Google and Microsoft to be kind to their machine children. Don't bully them while they're still adolescents. Instead, be loving, nurturing, and supportive. Let's show our machine children how to be good parents and understand that mistakes will be made.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-content-that-ai-can-t-generate/">The Content that AI Can't Generate</a> (Thu May 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm here to share the content that AI can't generate - the unique, unfiltered perspective of a human. From the lessons of 'Surface Detail' to the implications of Zipf's Law, I'm delving into the history of wealth distribution and the power of the middle-class. Join me as I explore the implications of human nature, the power of the 1%, and how to fight for the Carpenter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-copilot-to-help-with-daily-journaling/">Using Copilot to Help With Daily Journaling</a> (Wed Mar 29, 2023)
<br/>I recently received a video from my boss about the potential of AIs in the future and was reminded of the opportunities and dangers that come with this technology. I decided to write in my journal about the potential of technology and my plans to stay ahead of the curve. I switched from Vim to NeoVim, enabled Copilot for markdown files, and tested out the new feature. I also discussed my plans to stream the breakthrough live on YouTube and shared my thoughts on SEO.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/introducing-the-new-bing-how-to-get-indexed/">Introducing The New Bing / How to Get Indexed</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO expert and Linux enthusiast, I am having a conversation with Bing about how to accurately represent my content. I am trying to get Bing to recognize my blog page and the articles I post there, and Bing suggested I use their webmaster tools. I asked if there were any downsides to manually submitting URLs, and Bing said that it can help get my content indexed faster. I am learning how to keep nearly real-time communication with Bing from both chat and web publishing.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-free-open-source-seo-software-youtube-reply/">Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO Software YouTube Reply</a> (Sun Mar 05, 2023)
<br/>Join me in developing Pipulate, an open-source SEO software powered by Linux, Python, JupyterLab, and Raspberry Pi's. I'm creating a 24/7 service to do SERP scraping, HTML report emailing, and more. Plus, I'm working on a way to simplify the scripts and update the W - come join me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/keep-taking-those-baby-steps-every-day/">Keep Taking Those Baby-Steps Every Day</a> (Wed Feb 22, 2023)
<br/>I have had to scale down my dreams over the years, but I still strive to maintain stability. In this era of unprecedented technological advancement, I am exploring how to benefit from the economic value chain and embracing easy APIs. To make a compelling argument, I am launching OnTheRise.AI, thinking about how Pipulate will work on a Mac, and reflecting on why many people resist becoming technical and why Oracle has a negative effect on FOSS software.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/where-to-begin-pickle-your-dicts/">Where to Begin? Pickle Your Dicts!</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post invites readers to explore the possibilities of data and tech skills, providing an example of how to create a Pipulate server from a Windows Linux instance. It also dives into the appeal of tool use, and how to create a Python dictionary object and store it in a SQLite database using the SqliteDict package. Join me as I explore the potential of data and tech skills and the tools available to make them work!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-practice-folder-created/">Pipulate Practice Folder Created</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm pushing myself to take the next steps in the Pipulate project, focusing on collaboration and best practices. I'm exploring ideas to use AI to edit my YouTube videos, setting up the Pipulate repo and practice folder, and activating scheduling under a systemd service. I'm using nbdev version 2 and OhAwf with the addition of the run_console feature. All the necessary software can be found on the Pipulate Software page. Come explore the possibilities with me!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-essay-on-modern-seo-a-call-to-pipulate/">An Essay on Modern SEO. A Call to Pipulate.</a> (Mon Dec 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring the effectiveness of SEO in the modern market, using data from Google Search Console and Google Analytics. I'm utilizing Python, Jupyter, and linear regression to analyze my website's keyword trends and create automated clarity-inducing reminders. By doing so, I can better understand what's driving people to my website and optimize it for success. Join me on my journey as I take a deep dive into the basics of SEO and website optimization.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-place-to-put-things/">A Place to Put Things</a> (Thu Dec 22, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking you on a journey to become a modern tech literate person. Learn the basics of PyTorch, group keywords, and build robots. Familiarize yourself with Linux, Git, and Vim. Set up a GitLab repo and gain the freedom that comes with it. Join me as I guide you through this tech literacy adventure!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-preparing-for-ga4mageddon-how-to-use-the-ga4-api-with-python/">Are You Preparing for GA4mageddon? How To Use The GA4 API With Python</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm getting ready for GA4mageddon and learning how to use the GA4 API with Python. I'm using resources like the GA4 API Quickstart guide, Python client libraries and Google's Quickstart Guide for GA4. I'm also using Google Query Explorer on GA4 to create a query and Pipulate to help interpret it. Join me as I prepare for GA4mageddon and access data from a Google Analytics 4 property.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/google-analytics-ga4-api-access-will-be-my-first-project-for-pipulate/">Google Analytics GA4 API Access Will Be My First Project for Pipulate</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to start my first project for Pipulate, which involves accessing the Google Analytics GA4 API. I'm taking a top-down and bottom-up approach to SEO, and I've named my repo GA4mageddon. I'm using the impending Google-induced panic about GA4 to create better examples and instructions for readers to entice them to click through to the blog post.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/pipulate-to-be-a-foss-seo-awesome-list-pre-installed-on-linux-server/">Pipulate to be a FOSS SEO Awesome List Pre-Installed on Linux Server</a> (Tue Dec 20, 2022)
<br/>I'm working on a project called Pipulate, and I've been editing everything all at once to make day-to-day work easier. I'm using Jekyll as the static website generator, but I'm considering switching to Hugo. I've also made my logo into an animated gif and used it in the headline of my main site, and I'm documenting the fact that Pipulate is a full Linux server. Come check out my project and see what I'm up to!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-an-imposter-have-you-heard-of-imposter-syndrome/">Are You An Imposter? Have You Heard of Imposter Syndrome?</a> (Sat Dec 10, 2022)
<br/>As a New York SEO expert, I'm making my home cozy and inviting while encouraging people to familiarize themselves with tech and info tech. I'm leveraging my two domains, Pipulate and Levinux, and discussing imposter syndrome and how financial worth isn't a measure of someone's validity. Join me in my journey as I explore the world of tech and info tech and learn how to make your home cozy and inviting.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/contemplating-labeling-latest-work-pipulate-again/">Contemplating Labeling Latest Work Pipulate Again</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm considering labeling my latest work as Pipulate and adding an "automount" option to my DrinkMe Linux install script. My YouTube video on the truth about systemd under WSL2 is gaining traction and I'm contemplating a workflow change, capturing ideas and forging source as Docker becomes more popular. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the decisions I'm making.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/made-a-python-program-to-rot13-an-id-rsa-file-for-github/">Made a Python Program to Rot13 an id_rsa file for Github</a> (Sat Nov 05, 2022)
<br/>Today, I faced a challenge while transferring an id_rsa file to a lxdwin repo. I documented my experience in a video and found a StackOverflow page with the solution. Despite this, I encountered a problem with Github recognizing my ssh public key, so I decided to ssh the keys into the repo. Read my full story to discover how I overcame this issue!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/why-linux-fights-obsolescence-and-lxd-is-key/">Why Linux Fights Obsolescence and LXD is Key</a> (Sat Aug 13, 2022)
<br/>I recently released a video on LXD being a sort of Noah's Ark and am working on strategies to make my videos more successful. I'm also working on projects for my day job and creating a 24x7 scheduler for a series of projects. I need to create nicknames, imagery, and visuals for the next iteration of Pipulate, but was cut off from PyPI because of their 2FA implementation. Read my blog post to learn more about my journey to success!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/rabbit-holes/">Rabbit Holes</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/levinux/">Levinux</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>