<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/long-tail-seo-is-dead-e-e-a-t-a-walrus/">Long-Tail SEO is Dead. E-E-A-T a Walrus.</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>As an experienced SEO, I've seen the effectiveness of long-tail SEO decline due to the tragedy of the commons. To break into the industry, we must figure out how to emit signals indicating Experience, Authority and Trustworthiness to convince Google you're Expert (E-E-A-T). Learn from Lewis Carroll's timeless stories and protect your sanity from those who would undo it. Don't covet the generational wealth of the Walrus family - use your own hammer to build your own kingdom.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-reasoning-benchmark-test-for-ai-if-a-b-then-superscience-see/">A Reasoning Benchmark Test for AI: If A & B, then Superscience... See!</a> (Sun Mar 26, 2023)
<br/>I have created a benchmark test for AI to test their reasoning ability, combining two facts - the Schwinger effect and the Meissner effect - that could lead to a form of propulsion that does not require chemical fuel. I have tested this theory on language models like GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Bing, and Bard, and have seen the potential of ChatBots, AI's, GAI's, and other technological advancements to help us make predictions.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/is-the-quantum-premise-implied-by-planck-s-equation-e-hv-balanced/">Is The Quantum Premise Implied by Planck's Equation E = hv Balanced?</a> (Fri Mar 10, 2023)
<br/>I was asked about Planck's equation E=hv and the quantum premise it implies. I explained the equation, dimensional analysis, and SI based units. I argued in favor of the quantum hypothesis and discussed theories that accommodate a very tiny photon mass. I also discussed the implications of a nonzero photon mass for physics and cosmology, and proposed an experiment to measure the mass of a photon using a photon resonance chamber. Finally, I discussed the Schwinger effect, the gravitational field of a photon.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/seeking-ai-help-getting-up-to-speed-on-math/">Seeking AI-help Getting Up To Speed on Math</a> (Tue Mar 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who has always struggled with math, I understand that it is a skill that can be improved with practice and dedication. I recently found many online resources and self-teaching tools to help me learn at my own pace, such as the Mathematics Refresher Course on Udemy, a 16-hour Math Refresher course from Alamo Colleges, and 9 free online courses from edX. I'm also exploring the Maxwell Heaviside Schrödinger approach to physics.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/just-moving-life-forward/">Just Moving Life Forward</a> (Sun Nov 06, 2022)
<br/>Today is my child's 12th birthday and I'm taking the time to prepare for it. Unloading the car, I'm reflecting on the entanglement of things and how our lives are like quantized units of energy. Are we unique or part of the same rippling quantum field? I'm also reflecting on the Python command I programmed yesterday and its potential future uses. Join me as I explore these thoughts and prepare for a special day.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-little-abstraction-is-nice-but-too-much-will-paralyze-you/">A Little Abstraction Is Nice But Too Much Will Paralyze You</a> (Wed Oct 26, 2022)
<br/>I explore the idea that we are mammals with an innate sense of compassion, yet have the ability to override this with cruelty. I believe the golden rule is a good code of conduct that helps us to survive, and that we were created as a solution to the creator's boredom. I discuss the limitations of our senses and the need to accept complex processes and abstractions, and how quantum effects may appear in our everyday lives.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span><a href="/gnu/">GNU</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/magic/">Magic</a><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span></div></div>