<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/working-on-alternate-headline-leads-to-installing-jekyll-local/">Working on Alternate Headline Leads to Installing Jekyll Local</a> (Sun Apr 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52 year old working for MOZ SEO Software, using AI to capture ideas, distill them, and turn them into something accessible for all. I'm also using AI to edit my videos and stand out from the 8 billion other people in the world. Recently, I've been writing a program to format blog posts by running a Linux git command that hits the OpenAI API for topics, meta descriptions and better headlines. You are looking at the results.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/removing-stopwords-from-jekyll-blog-urls/">Removing Stopwords From Jekyll Blog URLs</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently completed a 15-year project, blogslicer, as part of my ELPGD (every little project gets done) mentality. I used Linux, Python, vim, and git to create the program, and now I'm incorporating a feature to remove stopwords from Jekyll blog URLs using the Python library, nltk. I'm writing code to create a blog post with a given title, slug, and path, which will generate a journal.md file with a table</li>
<li><a href="/blog/creating-blog-index-page-for-jekyll/">Creating Blog Index Page for Jekyll</a> (Wed Apr 27, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a script to generate an index page for a blog using Jekyll. It reads a journal file and creates a post for each entry, complete with a title and slug. It then assembles an index page with links to each post, making it easier for readers to find what they're looking for. Click through to explore my blog!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/using-blog-titles-for-filenames/">Using Blog Titles for Filenames</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I'm excited to share that I made great progress on a blog slicing and dicing system. I managed to maintain my blogging format while also figuring out the title stuff. I now have `_counter_` posts, each with a unique filename based on the post title, as well as the title, layout, categories, and slug. Come read more to learn how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/slicing-dicing-single-file-to-jekyll-blog-posts/">Slicing & Dicing Single File to Jekyll Blog Posts</a> (Mon Apr 25, 2022)
<br/>I recently livestreamed a project where I was slicing and dicing a single long journal file into separate files. I used debugging messages and headlines to provide a hierarchy, pre-processed titles into slugs, and added frontmatter and `_config.yml` file. Join me as I share my journey of refining the project and the challenges I faced along the way.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/commit/">Commit</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/playwright/">Playwright</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>