<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/left-is-the-past-and-right-is-the-future-right-blog-arrows/">Left is The Past and Right is The Future, Right? (Blog Arrows)</a> (Fri May 05, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the beauty and logic of arrow navigation. It can take some finagling to get it right, but it's a great 80/20-rule solution. With a configurable option, I'm able to make it so that the 'past' is left, and the 'future' is right - perfect for website navigation.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>In this article, I discuss Microsoft's Embrace & Displace strategy and how it relates to Linux. I explore how this strategy can be used to benefit you, by embracing Linux and its timeless tools, and avoiding the pitfalls of planned obsolescence. Learn how to use vi, vim, NeoVim, the command-line, git, and ssh to stay competitive and never be displaced.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/dropping-openai-advice-field-adding-question-field/">Dropping OpenAI Advice field, Adding Question field</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>This post explores the process of deleting advice fields from a journaling system and replacing them with more interesting questions. It also details how OpenAI's feedback is used to measure success with tools such as web browsers, CURL, and the Python Requests package. The post will be available soon at the provided URL.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/running-ubuntu-18-04-and-ubuntu-20-04-simultaneously-under-wsl-2/">Running Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04 Simultaneously Under WSL 2</a> (Sat Sep 17, 2022)
<br/>I recently updated my Windows taskbar to include a BASH Shell, Jupyter and Web browser, and it's become part of my daily routine. I had to decide whether to keep one copy of Linux running under WSL, so I chose to run both 18.04 and 20.04 side-by-side. Follow me as I take you through my obsessive compulsive journey of updating my taskbar and deciding which Linux OS to run.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/">You Get Blinded By The Hardware</a> (Wed Aug 03, 2022)
<br/>I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/mapping/">Mapping</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blogslicer/">blogslicer</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>