<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/eliezer-yudkowsky-i-just-don-t-agree-with-you/">Eliezer Yudkowsky, I Just Don't Agree With You</a> (Sat May 06, 2023)
<br/>Explore the idea of intelligent amplification and the potential of AI with this blog post. Learn about the implications of the Cambrian explosion and the possibility of an AI apocalypse. Discover how to improve website user experience by extracting cohesive linear topical sequences.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ctrl-s-and-ctrl-space-amazingly-available-for-custom-vim-neovim-keyboard-shortcuts/">Ctrl+S and Ctrl+Space Amazingly Available For Custom vim/NeoVim Keyboard Shortcuts</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>Discover how I maximize my productivity with my new journaling approach, allowing myself to edit multiple files with ease without getting lost in a sea of tabs. Utilize the astoundingly available `Ctrl+S` and `Ctrl+Space` keyboard shortcuts to quickly cycle through buffers and access important resources instantly. Get lost in a sea of open screens and windows no more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/">1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education</a> (Mon May 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-80-20-rule-means-front-loading-the-big-wins/">The 80/20-rule Means Front-loading The Big Wins</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>Ready to make big improvements in your life? I'm sharing my experience on how to use the 80/20-rule and front-load the big wins. Learn how to organize your environment and make the most of your time.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/testing-auto-publish-prevention-when-ai-has-written-fields/">Testing Auto-Publish Prevention When AI Has Written Fields</a> (Sat Apr 29, 2023)
<br/>Test out my new auto-publish prevention system when AI has written fields. I'm doing one release before giving this a title as a control, and making sure the system works. This is a small article release, and I may delete it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/indomitable-spirit/">Indomitable Spirit</a> (Fri Apr 28, 2023)
<br/>I recently restarted WSL to get my Linux and Windows clocks in sync. I'm actively working my way back from several setbacks, including a move, my cat escaping, and changes at my job. To help me on my journey, I'm using NeoVim, updating my journaling system, rolling with the punches and navigating my next step.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/steve-jobs-and-bill-gates-having-amiga-envy/">Steve Jobs and Bill Gates having Amiga-envy</a> (Tue Apr 25, 2023)
<br/>I'm working on an AI-assisted YAMLesque journaling system and have made changes to my website using Jekyll, Liquid Template, and Python to create an open source SEO software. I'm almost finished and ready to release my post, so come and see the results of my project!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/defaultdict-s-returning-keys-with-lambdas-needs-default-none/">DefaultDict's Returning Keys with Lambdas Needs Default None</a> (Sun Apr 23, 2023)
<br/>I have created a YAMLesque journaling system and used powerful techniques such as setting a default None value with Python defaultdict and lambdas for improved flow control and efficiency. Learn how I used this project to write two blog posts, and watch the new release process in action.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/designing-yamlesque-post-generator-api/">Designing YAMLesque Post Generator API</a> (Sat Apr 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm amazed by how things just work. I'm using 80-hyphens as a parser token to make my front-matter handling more slicey and yaml-like. I've written a powerful function called chop_chop that takes a file path and returns a tuple with 3 positions. Occasionally I'll do one-off's in Jupyter Notebooks. I'm excited to see the results of my work and hope you will be too.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/admiring-the-usefulness-of-yaml-ness-in-my-journaling-system/">Admiring the Usefulness of YAML-ness in my Journaling System</a> (Sat Apr 22, 2023)
<br/>I'm reveling in the glory of my code working as it should. I'm using YAML-ness to create a journaling system with a dictionary of lower-case usage as keys and all the happenstance uses as lists in each value. I wrote a program to parse a journal file and extracted the front matter of each post, then loaded it into a YAML dictionary. I'm now ready to give this a title and share my journey of slicing up my life into chunks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/yaml-validation-now-baked-into-yamlesque-journaling-system/">YAML-validation Now Baked Into YAMLesque Journaling System</a> (Fri Apr 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm a big fan of the Google App and seeing AI appear there via Google Discover. I'm enjoying watching Microsoft embracing and displacing Google with AI. I suggest people make automations they want to rule them. I wrote a poem about a fictional AI named Yahwanna. I'm also using AI ChatBots, OpenAI's GPT products, API-request, SQLite database, YAML, Mermaid diagram, and a local SQLite key-value store. And more if you can believe it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/my-secret-daily-work-journal-now-more-yaml-like/">My Secret Daily Work Journal now More YAML-like</a> (Thu Apr 20, 2023)
<br/>I've created a new journaling format that uses YAML-like front-matter and a few transformations. I just hit a button, but the 1-page journal.md where I edit all my blog posts at once gets sliced & diced into individual Jekyll-style posts, gets AI suggested headline, meta description and keywords, then rolls it all back into journal.md for further editing, revision and refinement. Come see how!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/going-from-blog-keyword-histogram-to-category-pages/">Going From Blog Keyword Histogram to Category Pages</a> (Wed Apr 19, 2023)
<br/>I wrote a program to create category pages for my website using the Jekyll Liquid template. I used a SQLite database to store topics and keywords, and deleted all previous category pages to create new ones based on the keywords. With the collections module's Counter, I created a keyword histogram and a dictionary of keywords and associated URLs. I am feeling successful today as I have taken a step towards improving my website by writing a list of slugs to a file. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-me-show-you-how-to-get-how-to-get-to-wonderland/">Let Me Show You How to Get, How to Get to Wonderland</a> (Sun Apr 09, 2023)
<br/>I embarked on a journey to learn the Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) toolset, even though I was tempted to pursue the full web stack or Macromedia/Adobe Flash development. After coming to terms with the fact that I was wrong about vim not actually being terrible, I decided to learn it in pieces, starting with daily journaling. You can too. It's so worth it.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/better-living-through-text-editors/">Better Living Through Text Editors</a> (Fri Apr 07, 2023)
<br/>As someone who is striving to become more independent from AI and the corporate world, I'm learning to use a text editor to become more deliberate and thoughtful. I'm using OpenAI API to slice and dice my journal.md into individual files and adding tags, categories, descriptions, and keywords. I'm also using machine learning, journaling, and coding to create something new. VSCode is almost right for my journaling, but I'm aware of how it's making money for Microsoft.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/continuing-my-silent-live-streaming-journaling-adventure/">Continuing My Silent Live-Streaming Journaling Adventure</a> (Fri Mar 31, 2023)
<br/>I'm live-streaming my journey of journaling and making the argument for keeping a single text file for life. I'm also creating a Github repo with code examples, watching cartoons with my kid, and making them food. I've written sample code and converted them into Python dict objects, and I now have a Jupyter Notebook to share with the community. Join me on my journey and explore the possibilities of journaling and coding!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-in-public-with-copilot-for-the-sake-of-it/">Journaling In Public With Copilot For The Sake of It</a> (Thu Mar 30, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the possibilities of GPT-4, an AI trained on the entire internet, by attempting to get it to do programming. I'm also setting up a project with the MOZ API, and checking if anyone is around to chat. As a long-time user of vim, NeoVim, and vi, I'm sharing my knowledge of their efficiency and keystroke commands with any potential readers. I'm also providing a link to the MOZ Links API Documentation, so read on.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/bing-helps-refine-foss-lpvg-argument/">Bing Helps Refine FOSS LPvg Argument</a> (Tue Mar 21, 2023)
<br/>ChatGPT-4 is an AI language model that can discuss interesting topics and provide helpful insight on non-religious belief systems. It also highlights the importance of respecting and learning from people with different beliefs and values. Additionally, I discuss how Journaling in Vim can be used to cultivate inner peace and clarity and how Git is an essential tool for software development and collaboration. Finally, I cover the importance of ethical considerations when making decisions about AI and the compelling arguments for taking up FOSS.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-cope-thrive-through-ai-induced-existential-crisis/">How To Cope & Thrive Through AI-Induced Existential Crisis</a> (Sun Mar 19, 2023)
<br/>As an SEO specialist, I'm exploring how to cope and thrive in this AI-induced existential crisis. I'm advocating for the use of Linux, Python, vim & git tools and habits to expand my coding capabilities. I'm confronting my fears of AI and learning that it's not a replacement for humans, but a tool to help them. Through this journey, I'm discovering how AI can create new opportunities and make jobs easier and more efficient. Join me on my journey to gain a better understanding.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/week-3-at-moz-step-up-your-game/">Week 3 at Moz, Step-Up Your Game</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new job at Moz and want to get off to a good start. I'm journaling live and making it more social, using open source text editor Vim and working on a project called Pipulate. I'm sharing my thoughts with my audience daily and have found Python to be the best fit for me. My goal is to get others to install JupyterLab under an invisible Linux VM, making the journey onto Linux an appealing adventure.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/figure-out-why-vim-journaling-is-an-asset/">Figure Out Why vim Journaling is an Asset</a> (Mon Feb 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm passionate about free and open source software and determined to stay independent from big companies. Join me in my live interactive chat session to journal about tech and explore the possibilities of OpenAI's ChatGPT. I'm also advocating for the use of Linux and other FOSS tools to help developers stay free and independent. Come join me and learn more!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/one-penguin-turns-and-says-to-the-other-you-know-it-s-funny/">One Penguin Turns and Says to The Other, You Know It's Funny...</a> (Sat Feb 11, 2023)
<br/>I'm an SEO, and I'm reflecting on the incredible technology that has allowed us to evolve over time. I'm exploring the impact of GNU licenses and the contributions of Ken Thompson, Linux Torvalds and Richard Matthew Stallman, as well as the implications of artificial intelligence. I'm also reminiscing about my journey from Commodore to Scala to Conners Communications, and my creation of HitTail, to my current position in New York City.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-namedtuple-for-each-week-you-ve-been-alive/">A NamedTuple For Each Week You've Been Alive</a> (Mon Jan 02, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explores the 80/20 rule, low empathy, and how the way people interact with machines is changing. I'm a 52 year old man looking for a balance between order and chaos, and I'm using JupyterLab and Python to code. I'm also suggesting journaling and tracking progress with weeks to get the most out of the experience. Join me as I explore the challenges of staying productive and organized as I age.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/rotating-logo-returns-and-key-advice-in-life/">Rotating Logo Returns and Key Advice in Life</a> (Sat Dec 17, 2022)
<br/>Today is the day to put my rotating logo back on the homepage with a bit of animation. I believe that life is a delicate balance of pushing past the hard bits, thinking clearly, journaling, using the 80/20-rule, and avoiding rabbit-holes. We must also be aware of the false dichotomies that label people and the power of those who oppose peace. Times are changing and the public is being held down, but I'm confident that we can break through.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/become-aware-of-how-tech-churn-harms-you/">Become Aware of How Tech-churn Harms You</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I'm 52 and have experienced the harsh reality of technological obsolescence. To future-proof my tech career, I have decided to focus on developing skills that can't be taken away, such as muscle memory and habits. I have also chosen to focus on tech that changes the least over time, and created the term LPvg (Linux, Python, vim and git) to highlight four essential tools. I'm journaling almost every day to help others learn these tools, so they can stay ahead.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/make-lxdwin-much-about-vim/">Make LXDWIN much about vim</a> (Fri Nov 11, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm focusing on making LXDWIN more about vim. I'm measuring success by how many people keep a daily journal in vim and introduce others to the command-line interface. I'm creating content for different audiences and saving time by laying the groundwork for others and AI-systems to edit. I'm applying this approach to my day-job and looking forward to the coming exodus from Microsoft Windows. Come join me on this journey and see what the future of computing holds!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-to-do-how-to-always-be-doing-step/">What To Do? How To Always Be Doing Step</a> (Tue May 31, 2022)
<br/>I'm taking control of my stress and anxiety with breathing exercises and other activities like jumping jacks, journaling, and visualizing the results of my efforts. I'm also reminding myself to take it step by step, double-check my work, and document the small steps I take. With this approach, I'm learning to actualize my thoughts into the real world and experience the magic of being human.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/righteous-feedback-loops-of-self-improvement/">Righteous Feedback Loops of Self-Improvement</a> (Fri May 13, 2022)
<br/>I start every day with a mantra of three questions and two modifiers to help condition my mind and get into the mindset of journaling. Through this daily practice, I'm learning to focus on small wins and use tools like Linux, Python, vim, and git to mechanically get tasks done. I'm also avoiding activities like video games and sports that may have long-term payoffs, and instead focusing on projects that will help me achieve small wins. By using the 80/20 rule and Rabbit</li>
<li><a href="/blog/use-vim-to-keep-one-journal-for-life/">Use vim to Keep One Journal For Life</a> (Tue May 10, 2022)
<br/>I've been using Vim to journal and it has changed my life. It's difficult to learn, but the skills and muscle memory I've gained are permanent. Writing in Vim has helped me to better understand myself, and I've been able to use version control systems like Github to keep my .vimrc file with me wherever I go. I've also been learning new vim-tricks like buffers and registers to increase my power. Finally, I've created a single file, journal.md</li>
<li><a href="/blog/every-little-project-gets-done/">Every Little Project Gets Done!</a> (Fri Apr 29, 2022)
<br/>I recently changed the name of my project to ELTgd (Every Little Thing Gets Done) to push myself to do more and practice my vim skills. I'm also using whatsametafor.io to document my progress. Click through to read more about my journey and how I'm getting things done!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/journaling-as-performance-art/">Journaling As Performance Art</a> (Fri Feb 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a performance art piece that auto-publishes my journal entries on Github.io. I'm also building a get_responses function that takes a list of URLs or tuples and returns a list of tuples. I'm testing it by providing it with a list of URLs and a function and checking the output. My goal is to get responses from a list of URLs and assign them either 'foo' or 'bar', then return them as a list. For example, when</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/jupyter/">Jupyter</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/journey/">Journey</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>