<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/">Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life</a> (Sun Apr 30, 2023)
<br/>At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/a-tale-of-3-daemons-laplace-s-maxwell-s-and-linux-s/">A Tale of 3 Daemons: Laplace's, Maxwell's and Linux's</a> (Sat Mar 04, 2023)
<br/>I wrote this tech diary to teach readers how to write bots using Python and to explore the contributions of famous scientists James Clerk Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann, and Pierre-Simon Laplace to physics. We discuss the fundamental flaws of Maxwell's and Laplace's daemons, AI language models, the Heisenberg uncertainty principle, and complex and emergent behavior in slime mold, the Universe, and neural networks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/the-crazy-old-batch-files-were-right/">The Crazy Old Batch Files Were Right</a> (Thu Feb 02, 2023)
<br/>I recently used browser automation to work around Google Photo API limitations and am now attempting to slurp down all the images that have been uploaded to the cloud over the years, while keeping the Apple Motion data intact. I'm teaching people how to set up a Pipulate Free & Open Source SEO server on their Windows 10 or 11 desktop, leveraging the Microsoft Subsystem for Linux and Jupyter Notebooks. I'm also exploring how Python 3 will remain the final version of Python.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/unique-conversation-let-s-talk-ai-python-next-steps/">Unique Conversation. Let's talk AI & Python Next Steps</a> (Wed Jan 25, 2023)
<br/>I'm amazed at how easy it is to use Linux-hosted JupyterLab on Windows 10. With my Python code, I can easily copy and paste between my Windows machine and the server. Investing in this system is easier than I thought and it has remained the same over the years. To maximize my impact in AI and Python, I need to create a Machine Learning License, copywrite my content, and create quick projects that I couldn't have done before.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/an-ode-tuple-keys/">An Ode Tuple Keys</a> (Sat Jan 21, 2023)
<br/>I'm downloading an update for Windows 10 Version 22H2 and transitioning to Linux, using the power of NT's "rings of protection". I'm running Web browser automation under Microsoft Playwright and using iPython Notebooks under JupyterLab running on Linux. I'm also exploring the usefulness of tuples in Python, and looping through a database of URLs to extract data and create a table which I'm writing to a parquet file.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/clear-screen-clear-mind-focus-focus-focus/">Clear Screen, Clear Mind... Focus, Focus, Focus!</a> (Wed Nov 30, 2022)
<br/>I am writing a Linux install script for Windows 10 or 11 users, and taking the time to reboot my system each morning to focus on what sparks joy, motivation and momentum. I am also striving to reduce surface area, factors, variables and general noise. I am passionate about Linux and its many features, such as security, flexibility, and scalability, making it a great choice for a variety of applications.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/microsoft-added-linux-graphics-and-systemd-to-wsl-for-windows-10/">Microsoft Added Linux Graphics and Systemd to WSL for Windows 10</a> (Sun Nov 27, 2022)
<br/>I recently installed Linux graphics and Systemd on Windows 10, and now I'm exploring the aftermath. I'm researching how to make the vGPU accessible and usable, mapping locations and environment variables, and setting up the WAYLAND_DISPLAY and XDG_RUNTIME_DIR. I'm looking into lxdwin script, Levinux/Getonux projects, and lxc config set to configure the jupyter environment. Join me as I explore the aftermath of this installation!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-total-life-s-work/">Planning Total Life's Work</a> (Thu Nov 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning my life's work and using my slice & dice blogging and LXD container systems to organize my ideas and keep them published on Windows 10 & 11. Come read my blog post to learn more about my planning process!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/recovering-old-laptops-for-video-production-purposes/">Recovering Old Laptops For Video Production Purposes</a> (Sun Sep 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a video tutorial to show how to upgrade WSL1 and reset Windows 11 to Windows 10, using a laptop with a version lower than 18917. To ensure accuracy, I'm researching Wikipedia pages and downloading Windows Win10_1809Oct_v2_English_x64.iso. Join me on my journey as I work to make this video and worry about ruining it with a system update!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fight-the-chaos-of-windows-10-use-virtual-desktops-linux/">Fight the Chaos of Windows 10 : Use Virtual Desktops & Linux</a> (Fri Sep 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm rebooting my "Make Windows 10" series with a focus on fighting chaos. To stay organized, I'm recommending Virtual Desktops, WSL, and removing tiles, clock, and Taskbar icons. For Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab users, I'm suggesting running the server Linux-side under GNU. Join me in my journey to a more organized Windows 10 experience!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-a-video-series-that-drives-message-home/">Planning a Video Series That Drives Message Home</a> (Thu Aug 25, 2022)
<br/>This video series will be a tutorial on how to move away from Microsoft and Apple systems and will explore topics such as Windows 10, WSL2, LXD Containers, and programming projects. I'll also discuss the evolution of an idea, the pursuit of craft, the 80/20-rule, and how to do what you love for money. Join me on this journey to reach a wider audience and learn how to make the switch from Microsoft and Apple systems.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/linux-container-under-windows-10-wsl-supporting-graphics/">Linux Container Under Windows 10 WSL Supporting Graphics</a> (Tue Jul 26, 2022)
<br/>I recently discovered that it is possible to get Linux graphics working with Linux containers on Windows 10 using VcXsrv. I figured out how to capture the DISPLAY variable from the host Linux and pass it to the container by writing it to a shared file. This technique is similar to activating Python virtual environments, and I'm excited to share my findings with you.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-average-windows-user-to-linux-terminal-user/">From Average Windows User to Linux Terminal User</a> (Fri Jul 22, 2022)
<br/>As an average Windows user, I'm taking advantage of Microsoft's partnership with Canonical to transition to Linux terminal. I'm installing Ubuntu on my existing laptop running Windows 10 or 11, so I can take advantage of the cloud and protect myself from obsolescence. Join me on my journey as I become a Linux terminal user.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/moving-is-not-easy-to-do-real-life-or-linux/">Moving Is Not Easy To Do: Real-life or Linux</a> (Thu Jul 21, 2022)
<br/>I recently moved, and it was a lot of work to stay organized. Moving to a new place has allowed me to think things through and reorient myself, and I'm looking to establish momentum, reacquire my equilibrium, and keep creating. Unfortunately, I've found that Windows 11 doesn't let you hide taskbar icons, and even hacks to remove the clock don't work. Read my blog post to find out how I'm dealing with the transition.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/installing-wsl2-on-windows-10-requires-kernel-update-and-hypervisor-turned-on/">Installing WSL2 on Windows 10 Requires Kernel Update And Hypervisor Turned On</a> (Thu Jun 09, 2022)
<br/>Learn how to use WSL2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux) on Windows 10 with just three steps: enabling Windows Subsystem for Linux, enabling Hypervisor, and downloading and running a patch. To make sure any future WSL instances are version 2, run the command 'wsl --set-default-version 2'. For more information on Terminal-based Linux, follow Mike Levin on YouTube.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/adventures-installing-manim-on-windows-11-not-under-wsl-linux/">Adventures Installing Manim on Windows 11 (Not Under WSL Linux)</a> (Thu May 05, 2022)
<br/>I recently switched from Mac to Microsoft and discovered the power of the vim command :b1. This blog post explores the importance of developing internal resilience and extracting the lessons from life experiences. I discuss the differences between the neocortex and the pituitary gland and how the neocortex can override the signals of the pituitary gland. I also share my experience of trying to get Manim to work on my Windows 11 system, and how I ultimately got it to work on Windows 10. I</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/database/">Database</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/machine learning/">Machine Learning</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>