<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-x-marks-the-spot/">Rappelling Down the Rabbit Hole, X-Marks The Spot</a> (Wed May 03, 2023)
<br/>Mike Levin, SEO in NYC, shares his experience of rappelling down the rabbit hole of GPT and other AI-related technologies. He explains the power of using one text editor for life and the advantages of using open source tools like NeoVim and Emacs. He also shares his insights into the dangers of AI and encourages readers to develop empathy for these technologies.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/git-rebase-i-root-vs-git-init-anew/">`git rebase -i --root` vs. `git init` anew</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I attempted to learn how to use the `git rebase` command to clean up my git history and speed up my repository. I discovered on big repos with lots of issues, it's easier to just `git init` and do the old swaparoo with a new repo. Also explore philosophical questions about existence and the relative importance of things, and relationship to retiring an old git repo and starting anew.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/most-motivating-opening-in-tv-history/">Most Motivating Opening In TV History</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I had a fascinating conversation with Bing on March 1, 2023 about the classic Laverne and Shirley theme song, "Making Our Dreams Come True". Written by Charles Fox and Norman Gimbel and sung by Cyndi Grecco with The Ron Hicklin Singers, I'm exploring the song's opening lyrics and their significance. Join me as I dive into the history and meaning of this iconic tune.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/verbalize-the-built-up-not-yet-memeified-angsty-feelings-of-the-public/">Verbalize the built-up not-yet memeified angsty feelings of the public.</a> (Sat Feb 25, 2023)
<br/>As I experience the impact of AI, I'm advocating for the use of 280 character tweets to spread ideas and leverage current tools for personal gain. This is a unique moment in history and I'm determined to make the most of it. Click through to find out how.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-the-decrufting-begin/">Let The Decrufting Begin!</a> (Wed Dec 14, 2022)
<br/>Yesterday I made history by de-linking and taking off the main navigation from my website, MikeLev.in. I loaded Linux, Python, Vim, and Git markdown pages into Vim buffers, so I could refine the few pages still linked on the main nav. Additionally, I used blog categorization to control what went onto the Linux, Python, Vim, and Git pages. Check out my blog post to learn more about my journey and the changes I made!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-write-an-article-about-the-controversial-history-of-coke/">ChatGPT: Write an article about the controversial history of Coke.</a> (Sun Dec 11, 2022)
<br/>As Coca-Cola, I have been one of the world's most successful and recognizable brands since being invented by John Pemberton in 1886. Initially made with a combination of cocaine and caffeine from the coca plant, I have since been reformulated to include a secret blend of flavoring agents. I have continued to grow over the years and invite you to learn more about my fascinating story.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/mlseo/">mlseo</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/meta descriptions/">Meta Descriptions</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>