<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/git-rebase-i-root-vs-git-init-anew/">`git rebase -i --root` vs. `git init` anew</a> (Tue May 02, 2023)
<br/>I attempted to learn how to use the `git rebase` command to clean up my git history and speed up my repository. I discovered on big repos with lots of issues, it's easier to just `git init` and do the old swaparoo with a new repo. Also explore philosophical questions about existence and the relative importance of things, and relationship to retiring an old git repo and starting anew.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-the-decrufting-begin/">Let The Decrufting Begin!</a> (Wed Dec 14, 2022)
<br/>Yesterday I made history by de-linking and taking off the main navigation from my website, MikeLev.in. I loaded Linux, Python, Vim, and Git markdown pages into Vim buffers, so I could refine the few pages still linked on the main nav. Additionally, I used blog categorization to control what went onto the Linux, Python, Vim, and Git pages. Check out my blog post to learn more about my journey and the changes I made!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/chatgpt-helping-me-visualize-the-future-unknown-unknowns/">ChatGPT Helping Me Visualize The Future (Unknown Unknowns)</a> (Sun Dec 11, 2022)
<br/>I'm using ChatGPT to help me visualize the future, tell stories, and articulate the Hero's Journey. I'm learning valuable lessons like it's never too late, and I'm pushing Linux, Python, vim, and git into the unconscious and automatic quadrant so I can use them like I use spoken language or driving. I'm testing to see if ChatGPT is really a game-changer.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/wsl-linux-graphics-and-systemd-support-takes-priority-over-lxd/">WSL Linux Graphics and Systemd Support Takes Priority Over LXD</a> (Tue Nov 29, 2022)
<br/>I'm MikleVin and I recently created a new repository to prioritize getting Linux graphics and SYSTEMD working over LXD Linux Containers in the Windows Subsystem for Linux. Check out my repository 'drinkme' at https://github.com/miklevin/drinkme and stay tuned for my upcoming video to explain these changes.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/what-cha-gonna-do-when-you-re-fifty-two/">What'cha Gonna Do When You're Fifty Two?</a> (Sat Aug 27, 2022)
<br/>On my 52nd birthday, I'm reflecting on my life and the changes that have occurred. I was pleasantly surprised to receive 6 months of free Disney+ from Verizon, and I watched She Hulk and Obi-wan, which brought tears to my eyes. I'm pushing forward with Operation ELTgd and the principle of 'Power Good', to help myself, those in my life, and the world. As a birthday gift to myself, I'm making a Bagel-All-The-Way.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/internalizing-tools-through-eepigenetics/">Internalizing Tools Through Eepigenetics</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>This article reflects on my journey in life, discussing the concept of epigenetics and Mike Levin, a microbiologist who shares my name and is a hero of mine. I explore my experiences in life, including falling victim to shortcut-seekers and narcissists, and how I am learning to make sure I don't lose myself to someone else. I have embraced my environment by finding my tools, and have realized the importance of incorporating VSCode into my DNA. I discuss the power of text editors.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a> (Thu Aug 18, 2022)
<br/>I'm creating a unique and awesome website experience for users, using a framework, slice.py, skite.py and more. I'm making pseudo-dynamic pages and working on the blog.md page, learning the workflow and making changes to output markdown into Github Pages Jekyll Liquid markdown `_includes` folder. After figuring it out, I'm ready to share my journey and the lessons I've learned.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/writing-a-bash-loop-script-for-jekyll/">Writing a Bash Loop Script for Jekyll</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>I wrote a Bash loop script for Jekyll to edit 10 sites at once, centralizing the identical files. I tested the script by adding line-height to style.scss, and it was successful. I then pushed the changes to all of my sites using git commands, and I'm excited to share the results with you!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/how-to-control-urls-and-links-in-jekyll/">How To Control URLs and Links in Jekyll</a> (Sat Apr 23, 2022)
<br/>I'm blogging using Jekyll and Github Pages and have just made some changes to the theme. I'm now following a DigitalOcean tutorial to control URLs and links in Jekyll - hoping for successful changes to propagate soon! Read my blog post to find out how I did it.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/proprietary/">Proprietary</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/math/">Math</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>