<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/embedding-svg-images-in-markdown-cells-of-jupyter-notebooks/">Embedding SVG Images in Markdown Cells of Jupyter Notebooks</a> (Sat Apr 08, 2023)
<br/>This blog post explains how I wrote a Python program that uses the base64 module to encode an SVG image file, generates an HTML img tag with the encoded data as the src attribute, and outputs the HTML img tag as a string. This allows the image to be displayed properly in a markdown cell of a Jupyter Notebook, making it easy to reference the original file. Read on to find out how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/powering-my-way-through-moz-links-api-documentation/">Powering My Way Through MOZ Links API Documentation</a> (Sat Apr 01, 2023)
<br/>I'm exploring the MOZ Links API with Mechvibes software, learning about the power of persuasion with Robert Cialdini's six principles, and using journaling and Python's dict native datatype to create a database to store the data and make it persistent. I'm also cleaning up a MOZ Links API Exploration Repo with NeoVim for OpenAI Github Copilot integration, making clicky sounds as I type. Join me on my journey.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/visualizing-plan-lpvg-as-foss-seo-but-easy-does-it/">Visualizing Plan: LPvg AS FOSS SEO, But Easy Does It!</a> (Thu Mar 16, 2023)
<br/>I'm excited to be working in tech again after the early 90s, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to work for Moz. I'm helping people with their existential crisis in this tech-filled world by using Jupyter Notebooks to copy/paste code from AIs and debug. I'm also showing people how to run a Linux VM cheaply, cleanly, and locally. Join me on this journey of tech exploration and discover how to use the latest tools and techniques.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/week-3-at-moz-step-up-your-game/">Week 3 at Moz, Step-Up Your Game</a> (Mon Mar 13, 2023)
<br/>I'm starting a new job at Moz and want to get off to a good start. I'm journaling live and making it more social, using open source text editor Vim and working on a project called Pipulate. I'm sharing my thoughts with my audience daily and have found Python to be the best fit for me. My goal is to get others to install JupyterLab under an invisible Linux VM, making the journey onto Linux an appealing adventure.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/ai-amplifies-you/">AI Amplifies You</a> (Thu Mar 02, 2023)
<br/>As a father of a 12 year old, I'm looking for ways to help them get interested in AI and technology. I've written a script called "drinkme" to set up a Linux server, and I'm creating a Pipulate server with a Jupyter Notebook for foundational tech skills. My goal is to help my child survive the coming AI craziness and learn real skills and knowledge. Come explore how AI can be used to help your child!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/fetching-saving-html-from-list-of-urls-using-python/">Fetching & Saving HTML From List of URLs Using Python</a> (Tue Feb 21, 2023)
<br/>As I prepare to start my new job, I'm taking care of all the necessary tasks, including ordering a standing desk and organizing my apartment. I also attended a group meeting with my employer and got all the onboarding paperwork done. To help out a friend, I'm creating a program to scrape data from a website and store it in an Excel file, using Python and Linux.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/backup-google-photos-to-self-hosted-alternative/">Backup Google Photos to Self Hosted Alternative</a> (Tue Feb 07, 2023)
<br/>I have created a program to back up my Google Photos, combining two scripts into a single file. I am now considering whether to keep the program as an nbdev app, and am exploring options to transition it from a notebook to a server. I am also considering not using the app in my FOSS SEO book, but recognize the value of the Jupyter Notebook under nbdev. Come read about my journey to make the best decision for my program!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/let-s-visualize-websites-as-network-node-graphs/">Let's Visualize Websites as Network Node Graphs</a> (Tue Dec 27, 2022)
<br/>I've been researching the best way to visualize large link and node graphs in Jupyter notebooks, comparing the advantages and disadvantages of using NetworkX and Bokeh, and have decided to try out Plotly. Over the holiday I made progress and outlined a plan to create 3D interactive visualizations in JupyterLab. I'm also teaching stakeholders how to access data on their own by setting up an instance of Linux WSL, installing nodejs and jupyter.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/are-you-preparing-for-ga4mageddon-how-to-use-the-ga4-api-with-python/">Are You Preparing for GA4mageddon? How To Use The GA4 API With Python</a> (Wed Dec 21, 2022)
<br/>I'm getting ready for GA4mageddon and learning how to use the GA4 API with Python. I'm using resources like the GA4 API Quickstart guide, Python client libraries and Google's Quickstart Guide for GA4. I'm also using Google Query Explorer on GA4 to create a query and Pipulate to help interpret it. Join me as I prepare for GA4mageddon and access data from a Google Analytics 4 property.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/from-jupyter-notebook-to-pip-installable-package-in-one-go/">From Jupyter Notebook to pip Installable Package In One Go</a> (Sun May 01, 2022)
<br/>Join me as I livecast the process of creating and releasing a Python package from a Jupyter Notebook. I'll be using the desktop version of JupyterLab and taking you through every step of the process. Don't miss out - tune in now!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/turning-repo-into-nbdev-project/">Turning Repo into nbdev Project</a> (Tue Apr 26, 2022)
<br/>I created a GitHub repo for my project, blogslicer, and connected it to my local directory. After editing the settings.ini file, I moved and renamed the notebook into the repo, added the necessary cells and comments for nbdev, and attempted to publish the project. Finally, I altered pythonically.com to not use index.md as the journal. Read my blog post to learn how I did it!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
<li><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a> (Fri Apr 8, 2022)
<br/>I'm exploring nbdev and LPvg to advance my knowledge of Python and the tools available for 24x7 automated systems. I'm using JupyterLab on Windows and have learned about commands like nbdev_clean_nbs, nbdev_build_lib, nbdev_build_docs, and more to help with the release process. I'm excited to see what I can do with nbdev and am embracing the challenge of incorporating it into my workflow</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/panda/">Pandas</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/service/">Service</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>