<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/have-journal-will-travel-across-machines/">Have Journal Will Travel (across machines)</a> (Wed Apr 26, 2023)
<br/>I recently moved to a new machine and was worried about my complex publishing system staying intact, especially with the GPT-like AI, Copilot. After getting a new keyboard and making sure my habits traveled with me, I was able to successfully set up Copilot and publish a post. Read on to find out how I overcame my worries and completed my tasks.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/planning-total-life-s-work/">Planning Total Life's Work</a> (Thu Nov 17, 2022)
<br/>I'm planning my life's work and using my slice & dice blogging and LXD container systems to organize my ideas and keep them published on Windows 10 & 11. Come read my blog post to learn more about my planning process!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/gutting-dependencies-out-of-your-projects-life/">Gutting Dependencies Out Of Your Projects & Life</a> (Mon Jun 20, 2022)
<br/>Today, I'm using Juneteenth as a day off from work to get some stuff done. I'm severing the dependency on Github Pages templates from my Jekyll static site generator and gradually getting better at coding. After making changes to the CSS file and deleting an import line, I inspected the cached CSS and transposed bits I wanted to keep. After publishing the page, the background turned white and the text and links were a more traditional color.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/center-a-poem/">Center, A Poem</a> (Mon May 23, 2022)
<br/>As a poet, I often feel off-center. I use my poetry to stay centered, but when I publish it, I'm too far left. To stay centered, I need to create a style definition that sets margin to auto and width to a percentage of the containing element, and put my styles inline. Even though the world is not perfect, I need to stay centered and put my styles inline to make sure my message is heard.</li>
</ol>
<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/string/">String</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/setting/">Settings</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>