<ol>
<li><a href="/blog/hey-ai-give-me-credit-consent-compensation/">Hey AI: Give Me Credit, Consent & Compensation</a> (Thu Feb 09, 2023)
<br/>This text explores how to make a living off of producing content that people find interesting and valuable. I provide several strategies to make this happen, such as leveraging the unique advantages of humans, licensing content, and emphasizing the human relationship aspect. Additionally, I discuss how the age of Wonderland and Oz is upon us, and how the Wizard of Oz book series can teach us much. I'm setting up a server to capture ideas and thoughts, practice writing, and publish a blog with valuable information.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/flattening-the-curve-of-ai-free-energy/">Flattening The Curve of AI & Free Energy</a> (Fri Dec 30, 2022)
<br/>This blog post explores the impact of AI on our world and how it can be leveraged to create cheap, clean energy and new technologies. I discuss the need to flatten the curve of these changes and suggest using memetic hacking to shape the future. I explain how decisions must be made based on approximations and how AI will allow us to solve problems in a fraction of the time. I conclude by exploring the potential of fusion as a viable option for the future.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/managing-static-vs-dynamic-leads-to-practical-fusion-a-better-you/">Managing Static Vs. Dynamic Leads to Practical Fusion & a Better You</a> (Thu Dec 15, 2022)
<br/>As a parent, I am helping my preteen navigate the transition from childhood to adulthood by encouraging them to observe, ask questions, and narrate their experiences. I am teaching them the importance of both static and dynamic states of being, which are both necessary for growth, from developing atomic energy to the inner workings of our own lives. I am also reflecting on my own journey of self-inspection and self-modification, which I had to do in order to grow and develop during transitional periods.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/contemplating-labeling-latest-work-pipulate-again/">Contemplating Labeling Latest Work Pipulate Again</a> (Fri Dec 02, 2022)
<br/>I'm considering labeling my latest work as Pipulate and adding an "automount" option to my DrinkMe Linux install script. My YouTube video on the truth about systemd under WSL2 is gaining traction and I'm contemplating a workflow change, capturing ideas and forging source as Docker becomes more popular. Come read my blog post to learn more about my journey and the decisions I'm making.</li>
<li><a href="/blog/windows-updates-kb5014699-kb5013887-lxd-on-wsl2-under-ubuntu-20-04/">Windows Updates KB5014699 & KB5013887 & LXD on WSL2 Under Ubuntu 20.04</a> (Wed Jun 15, 2022)
<br/>After a long update process, I realized the Windows Updates I had downloaded weren't what I was looking for. I then tried to get LXD running under WSL2 on Ubuntu 20.04 but was unsuccessful. Switching to Ubuntu 18.04 allowed me to get LXD running, but now I'm faced with a difficult decision: do I make my next video out of the arts? Read my blog post to find out what I decide!</li>
<li><a href="/blog/always-be-writing-though-language-is-full-of-lies/">Always Be Writing Though Language Is Full of Lies</a> (Thu Apr 21, 2022)
<br/>I understand why my brain wants to automate decisions so I can focus on more important matters like writing and vlogging. Writing and vlogging are both ways of encoding thoughts into words, and can help manifest ideas into reality. With practice, I can capture ideas and turn them into coherent thoughts. Learn how writing can be used to your advantage and improve your life in unexpected ways.</li>
</ol>
<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/evidence/">Evidence</a></div><div class="post-nav-next"><span class="arrow">&nbsp;</span></div></div>