---
date: 2023-09-04
title: Coding, Keyboards and Literacy
headline: Discover the power of coding, keyboards and literacy to unlock your autonomy and agency.
description: As literacy is continuously redefined, coding is becoming more and more important. To become proficient in coding, touch-typing on a full-sized QWERTY keyboard is essential. I propose that learning to type is a necessary step and provides a great escape from mobile addiction. Laptops are a bridge between two worlds, allowing you to use free and open source software without depending on Google, Apple or Microsoft.
keywords: Coding, Keyboards, Literacy, Touch-typing, QWERTY, Muscle Memory, Autonomy, Agency, Free-will, Gutenberg Press, Public School Systems, JavaScript, Python, Voice Control, AI, Intellisense, Plug-ins, Git, Mobile, Dopamine, Cyborgs, Microsoft, Macbook Air, Gamer Keyboards, Mechanical Click, Mac, Linux, Windows, FOSS, Ubuntu, USB Installer, Driver Support, Game Market,
categories: muscle memory, linux, git, mac, microsoft, python, javascript, coding, ubuntu, ai
permalink: /blog/coding-keyboards-and-literacy/
layout: post
group: blog
---


Every few centuries, literacy is redefined. And literacy is the difference
between being powerless and having some control over your destiny in society.
In other words, being able to decode thoughts from text and encode them again
is a significant part of free-will. It's the next step past instincts because
you can stop and think. You can consider what others think and do what you
think is best for yourself.

What we call autonomy and agency are tied to our ability to decode and encode
our thoughts. It broadens our choices. It gives us more power to see the unseen
and to do the unexpected. It opens doors that were previously closed. It
illuminates paths that were previously dark. It gets us out of the dark ages
and whatever situation circumstances have placed us in. It is the ability to
rise above our circumstances and to change them.

That is what literacy is. It's the ability to read and write. It is the ability
to decode and encode thoughts that lead us to alternate patterns of
self-automation. It is the ability to read and write code. There is a much
thinner line of separation between spoken and written word and computer
programming languages than might be apparent at first glance.

This was true with the Gutenberg press when books proliferated and in the
time-period between that and when public school systems ensured that the
majority of the population could read and write, those who could had a huge
advantage over those who couldn't. You could write your own pass such as it
were, and few could stop you because they lacked the ability to do so without
resorting to more primitive basic behavior like violence. Of course they still
did (and do), but it can only be sustained for so long before its seen for what
it is. Embracing the new literacy wins in the end even though a few intrepid
individuals are sacrificed and lost along the way.

Literacy is changing again. What it is to read and write is now what it is to
read, write and code. It's different from mathematics which some people "get"
and some people don't because coding is much easier, much closer to the spoken
and written word. It's encoding a series of ideas and instructions tied very
closely to the spoken word without needing to make up new symbols and syntax at
every turn to express ideas with complex chains of dependencies. In math the
way it exists today if you tune-out at point-B you'll be lost at point-C and
beyond with little ability to do a big catch-up. Not so with coding. The joke
is: "I just learned Python and it was quite an evening." You can still be
learning subtleties of Python for the rest of your life, but those essentials
that bridge the gap between the spoken-word and the world of automation are
about an evening's work. A weekend at worst.

Another thing you'll hear more and more often is that Python is the new lingua
franca of tech. That means Python is to technology what English is to
international communication. It's what everyone agrees upon as a lowest common
denominator so you know you can understand and be understood with the least
muss and fuss. There are "better" languages than English and there are "better"
languages than Python. That doesn't matter. ***Good enough*** and
***fortified*** is better than best but obscure. 

Python becoming the lingua franca of tech will surely be debated, but it's been
in the works for a long time. There have been various contenders, few as
closely aligned and heartbreakingly ***not quite right*** as PERL. PERL was the
original "Practical Extraction and Report Language" and it was the first to be
regularly bundled with Linux distributions as an alternative to the even more
primitive shell scripting languages. Whatever language becomes the de facto
standard in Linux for general purpose scripting is going to have a strong, if
somewhat invisible, claim to the throne of lingua franca of tech. It's enough
to eclipse even how JavaScript is built into browsers.

Python has long satisfied the ***good enough*** criteria and as of late it has
crossed the threshold of fortified by being included with every distribution of
Linux, the building-block of most modern information technologies, in a way
that JavaScript isn't and probably never will be, even built into the browser
as it is. For those for whom Python is still some abstract snake-named
language, ponder how good that means Python really must be under the surface
despite its unfortunate and misleading name.

But you don't just jump into Python. There's a few steps you should get under
your belt first. Touch-typing is probably the most important. Creating a
greater natural muscle-memory control between human and machine is important,
and the spoken word with voice control to some AI just won't cut it. You're
coding in an unnecessary and almost parental dependency. It's like you're
saying I want to continue babbling like an uneducated child and I want you to
create all the structure and meaning behind my thoughts. While this may not be
true for capturing a list of 10 items, the more complex your thoughts involving
logic and loops, the truer it is that you want the actual ability to read and
write in the language of loops and logic and not just stand by like some child
watching a magic trick, unknowing and with no ability to step in and perform
the trick for yourself.

How many times have you seen that play out? The magician reveals his trick and
the snot-nosed know-it-all satisfied that the seen-it-once intellectual knowing
of a thing is all it takes. They immediately try to perform the trick, botch
it, claim sour grapes and lose interest. That particular scenario is forever
playing out in life in other forms, separating the perpetually illiterate from
the true spell-casters. And the cognitive dissonance that creates in the
illiterate (unhappiness about a "wrong" situation) just lingers in the back of
their mind forever. They subconsciously know they walked away from an
opportunity to better themselves by mastering the magic, but it was too
difficult to take step #2.

Step #2 is touch-typing. First you realize there is power in coding
"old-school" without relying on AI voice recognition and without relying on
fancy Microsoft, Google or Apple-provided "power-tools". These powertools like
VSCode are shortcuts and cheats. While perhaps not as bad as fully relying on
an AI to transform your words into apps, relying on features like Intellisense
and plug-ins for simple tasks like moving files around (git) is making yourself
once again a child-like dependent on the vendor. Apple, Google and Microsoft
***become the source*** of your abilities. And as such, they can ***turn them
off*** at any time by discontinuing their products or otherwise changing how
they work. This is usually to force you to re-train, re-buy and otherwise
remain a hamster on a hamster-wheel.

If you want the acquire the skills that make you not rely on Google, Apple and
Microsoft it's going to take some work. We are already cyborgs, attached to our
phones. And the first illusion to bust is that these tiny tap-type keyboards
are any sort of replacement for a full-sized old-school typewriter style
keyboards that you plug into console computers or are built into laptops. Old
fashioned QWERTY keyboards are time-tested workhorses of "getting into the
zone". You can go for hours with the fact you're really even interfacing with a
machine fading way. The computer becomes like an extension of your body. One
could argue you can achieve that on a tiny phone or even a tablet on-screen
keyboard, but let yourself try. Two or three hours into a project, you are
unlikely to have the same opinion.

So the new literacy, even before taking up Python, begins with touch-typing on
a full-sized QWERTY keyboard. Even the low-profile ones built into laptops will
do. Apple, one of the biggest user interface testers on the planet, pushed the
bar of quite how shallow and small you could make one of these keyboards and
not cause an outcry and sales-loss. The question has been answered. There is a
minimum size and a minimum key-depth and tactile sensation you need for the
magic that makes keyboards still so popular to work for you. 

A typical Microsoft Surface laptop and the original Macbook Air's just about
got it right. You don't need the fancy gamer keyboards with that wonderfully
satisfying mechanical click, although they are nice. The point is to develop
the muscle memory on something that is close enough to satisfying and standard
that you can move from keyboard to keyboard throughout life with minimal
awkwardness and squandering of your hard-won internal muscle memory asset. So
almost any typical modern laptop will do. Don't get hung up on choice. Good
enough is good enough, so long as it's a full fledged keyboard satisfying those
minimum criteria.

So then ho do you practice touch typing? How do you even learn in the first
place? Back in my day I took lessons in high school. That was late in the game.
A typical person could probably take up learning the skill of touch-typing,
which we should probably define as the practice of typing without hardly even
thinking and certainly no hunting-and-pecking, in their early teens. There's no
reason it can't be introduced even earlier with the right motivation and
instruction. Tackle the prerequisites for modern literacy as early as possible.
By the time you get to Python, the actual arranging of words could be flowing
off your fingertips at the speed of thought.

"Getting into the zone" through the momentum that old-school reading and
writing can produce is one of the blockers to the "pull of mobile". Try putting
your phone down and going about your day without it. You'll know the pull of
mobile. That dopamine reward you get from checking your whatever's, that's what
keeps you borg. That addiction to the greater emergent collective entity, that
is the simultaneous increased connectedness and isolation. I humbly propose
that learning to type so that you have the means to let your on true inner
feelings and thoughts fill the emptiness is a practical alternative to the
mobile addiction.

While still technological in nature and not without risk, the laptop does serve
as a bridge between these two worlds. The desktop operating of a laptop can
still be trimmed and pruned and purged of all distraction. It can be turned
into a host for even more focus-permitting systems that run on them. It matters
not if its Windows or Mac serving as the host, or for that matter Linux. What
does matter is that you can get a universal timeless application interface with
deep roots in the free and open source software (FOSS) tradition pulled up and
ready to use on these hosts.

I find it useful thinking of this project as ***looking for a space to be.***
You see, being on your phone is being in a space. It's a head-space and it's an
actual physical technological space. The former leads to the later. Choosing
the physical space of your phone leads to you choosing a borg-like place in
your head. Your individual personal autonomy and agency are sort of chopped off
in that space. You don't stand a chance of holding onto and bringing out more
of yourself because of how readily the next addicting dopamine hit is lurking
at the next app or notification. It's like being held captive. A beautiful
prison.

Now Earth itself is a beautiful prison with us bound to our material bodies and
our bodies held in the Earth's gravity-well. There's prison-realities you're
just not going to escape easily or anytime soon. But you can choose to only be
unjustly held by the original ones of the reality you were born into. The
physical limitations of being mortal corporeal being stuck in the Earth's
gravity well. You need not give into the artificial self-induced prisons of
modern tech. Better still, you can use the best "free" bits of modern tech to
help protect the freedom of your on mind.

And this is my cause. It's just playing my little role of advancing the concept
of what it is to be literate in this day and age to the next level: including a
little coding as natural as talking or writing. Hand-in-hand with that coding
is the ability to set your automations in motion and keep them running under a
reasonable level of engagement and monitoring. In other words, get things
running and keep them running as if they were extensions of your body with
their own functions, like a beating heart or sensory system that alerts you if
pain (touching something hot) goes over a threshold. Set it and forget it,
until it brings itself to your attention through some mechanism you set up.

And you do all this without the involvement of or any dependencies on Google,
Microsoft or Apple. Or at least in an ideal world, you do. Truth is you start
out with minimal and easily de-coupled dependencies on these companies knowing
you can sever those final connections when the time comes. And regarding the
automation bit, you're also avoiding If This Than That (ITTT), Zapier and all
the other proprietary vendor systems offering freemium levels of service for
the mere price of your forever-dependence on them.

So establish a "place" on your laptop that is separate and distinct from that
mobile place. And while I don't think it's completely necessary, my favorite
advice because so many people are on Windows, is to do a full "Reset PC" from
the Windows / Settings if it's already a Windows 10 system, or to install
Windows 10 from from Microsoft's "installation media" site. If the laptop still
has Internet connection such as a Windows 11 system you'd like to upgrade to
Windows 10, you can do so right from that site without even having to produce a
USB install drive. You just choose to install Windows 10 on the current system
early in the process. During the install, don't give it a WiFi connection and
disable all the intrusive privacy options when they're presented. Then after
you have Windows 10, go into Settings / Apps and uninstall everything you don't
need. Additionally disable everything intrusive from the Microsoft Edge
browser. At the end of such a process, you have an 80/20-rule "clean" host
machine for free and open source software (FOSS).

While it's true you can just find some version of Linux like Ubuntu, make a USB
installer and install Linux "on the metal", you lose whatever advantages there
may still be in Windows, such as easy/special driver support for your hardware,
compatibility with the general game market, whatever software you need to use
for work like Office or Adobe. What I'm saying is that however awful you might
feel Windows is, there are still plenty of benefits and because anything
including Windows can be a perfectly fine "host" for FOSS, you can get the best
of both worlds: Windows and FOSS.






















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/google-conversational-search-vs-bing-chat-no-contest/">Google Conversational Search vs Bing Chat (No Contest)</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/internalizing-the-tools-of-your-trade-that-are-timeless-to-boot/">Internalizing the Tools of Your Trade That are Timeless to Boot</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/muscle-memory/'>Muscle Memory</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/mac/'>Mac</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/python/'>Python</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/javascript/'>JavaScript</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/coding/'>Coding</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ubuntu/'>Ubuntu</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li></ul>