---
date: 2022-08-03
title: You Get Blinded By The Hardware
headline: "Adapting to Constant Change: Understanding the Challenges of Tech in the Modern Age"
description: I've experienced the highs and lows of technology over the years, from the Amiga computer to Windows laptops and web development tools. This has taught me to be wary of becoming too attached to hardware, as it changes quickly and requires constant retraining and relearning. Through this journey, I've come to understand the importance of adapting to new technologies and the challenge of mastering a craft with ever-changing tools.
keywords: Amiga, Computer, Windows, Laptop, Web, Development, Tools, Adapting, New, Technologies, Mastering, Craft, Changing, Evolving, Technology, Nintendo, LAMP, ASP, ROR, NODE, Hardware, Musicians, Athletes, Instruments, Games, Switching, Tools, Techniques, Habits, Mastery
categories: amiga, computer, development, node, microsoft
permalink: /blog/you-get-blinded-by-the-hardware/
layout: post
---


Beware. Your thinking is easily predisposed when you take up new
information-soaked subject matter. Tech is very much one of those things. It's
rife with religion and dogma and loyalties and resistance to change.

And why not? Once you've bought or learned or deployed some tech, you shouldn't
have to worry about whether it will still be in style 10 or 50 years from now
to continue to be supported and kept running. Or should you?

Is tech supposed to last forever to get the most out of your investments, or
should tech due to its rapidly changing nature always be considered disposable?
Maybe some tech is intended for a 2-year run so it doesn't matter what you used
because everything will get scrapped and rebuilt every few years anyway.

What about the employees and volunteers who went into making those
platform-depended short-lived tech? What about those individuals who got into a
field dominated by tools destined to change in 10-year cycles, like Adobe
Flash? Or developers for a particular era phone or game console? Are such folks
supposed to retrain, relearn and adapt?

If entire tool-sets get replaced every 10 years, and it takes about 10 years to
master a master-able skill, then you master it just in time to be obsolete.
Will seasoned individuals on their way to mastery forever be knocked back to
equal footing with the latest crop of ambitious youth hopping on the new
bandwagon?

The answer relies in the details of what tech skill sets you took up. It also
depends on whether you fall in live with tools and enjoy the process of them
fading into the background while your personal powers expand. Simple people
gravitate toward particular tools and cumulative mastery while others can take
up any tool and just use it a little while and move into the next later and be
equally happy. These are 2 different vibes, and they respond different as
platforms change.

Did you jump onto the bandwagon of some sexy new hardware and get excessively
attached to those attributes of it bound to go away? Did you feel betrayed? Are
you slow and weak on the uptake but strong in the long-haul like a D&D wizard?
Do all the rules suddenly changing piss you off? And is it even worse because
it doesn't seem to bother anyone else? Maybe it was platform games to 3D. Maybe
it was DOS to Windows. It's always something and it's always tied to evolving
hardware tech trends.

That's what happened to me with the Amiga computer. I fell in love with it.
With her. It was an exquisite hardware platform and easy to fall in love with.
They mythology of its creators is beautiful. The ties to the Atari hardware
lineage. The development. The coprocessors had girls names and made the thing
run smooth—far more smooth and slick than anything else of the day. The
moderate success. It's doom-sealed long-term fate by the very things that gave
it a short-term boost. When it went away, I was crushed.

I am not the only one. Closet and not so closet Amiga freaks exist out there in
great number, even to this day around 35 years since its invention, keeping it
alive in the shadows and on keychains. UNIX on the other hand is older at over
50 and still big—very much mainstream and not in the shadows. Together with
it's progeny Linux, it's the winning tech platform. It's the one not driven by
hardware. It's the one with the “virtual machine”-like C programming language
defended from the BCPL programming language that made the particular hardware
ir runs in of much less consequence.

Bandwagons are often driven by hardware. Hardware will always improve. The move
from vacuum tubes to transistors to integrated circuits continues. Hardware is
what gets dropped into our hands and enables us—the smartphone, the laptop, the
tablet, the game console. Our personal relationships easily get formed around
particular clusters of atoms. We love our hardware years at a time. Interaction
with particular hardware platforms defines phases of our lives. The Nintendo
years. The Windows laptop years. And so on.

But these are the very things destined to change dramatically generation to
generation, driven by Moore's Law and other pressures. So any technical-like
craft, such as using a text editor or particular language, will just change
because the hardware changes? Should everyone with ambitions aligned to
technical mastery of a craft still have to be exactly as dynamic as the
competition and profit driven industry they got involved in?

What if musicians had to keep learning new instruments? What if athletes had to
keep learning new games and equipment? It seems ridiculous, but that's much the
situation we have in tech with LAMP yielding to ASP yielding to ROR yielding to
NODE. And that's just Web Development. Are we in tech resigned to eternally
have to be switching tools, techniques, habits, and junk any deep mastery we
acquired over the years, denied the satisfaction of long term
hardware-connected mastery enjoyed by athletes and musicians? Generally, yes.

Eventually hardware breaks down so bad it has to be replaced. But what if that
old tech is just no longer available? What about all those processes that were
running in the old hardware? Can you just never get it running again? That
situation must be recognized beforehand and mitigated by decoupling the
processes and data from particular hardware. Don't fall in love with hardware.
Hardware will forever let you down.

Maybe your code should be running in 50 years. Who's to say not? Do you really
even have much control over what code and where your code is running now,
today? Do you even have code that you might want to run at this moment?

If not, let's get you coding!

Either way, let's predispose your thinking properly regarding particular
instances of hardware and how you can make them less important to you than they
tend to become. And if that sounds anthropomorphically cruel to you, let me
remind you that laptop is not your baby. It's factory base and replacing in
every sense, except for the information that resides on it. It's the
information and how to make it come alive again that's important, and not the
particular laptop.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/send-email-with-file-attachment-from-python/">Send Email With File Attachment From Python</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/ubuntu-18-04-vs-ubuntu-20-04-for-lxd-under-wsl2-wizard-defaults/">Ubuntu 18.04 vs Ubuntu 20.04 for LXD Under WSL2, Wizard Defaults</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/amiga/'>Amiga</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/computer/'>computers</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/development/'>Development</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/node/'>Node</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li></ul>