---
date: 2022-07-03
title: Fairly Certain I Had a Brush With Catknappers
headline: My Cat Lynnie Returns After Suspected Catnapping Incident
description: I recently moved and my cat Lynnie escaped during the transfer. After suspecting someone had been in my house and broken up the cat treats, I feared someone was taking advantage of the situation. I posted a plea on a community Facebook group and, sure enough, my cat returned 10 minutes later. My neighbor had warned me of bad luck for reworking a stone wall and I suspected they had taken my cat. Read this blog post to find out how I got my cat back.
keywords: moving, cat, Lynnie, house, cat treats, Facebook, neighbor, stone wall, tree swing, June 30th, 2022, sliding-glass door, Michael's stone wall
categories: 
permalink: /blog/fairly-certain-i-had-a-brush-with-catknappers/
layout: post
---


Wow, so I'm moved into the new place. One encounters interesting events in life
and must move on. Lingering longer does no good, such as with the circumstances
surrounding the disappearance of my cat after its escape in transfer to the
car.

> Sometimes we linger longer<br />
> Or a grieving starts to grow<br />
> Which needs a thorough sieving<br />
> Before we can let go.<br />

So this is that thorough sieving of my thoughts. Ugh! I friggin' hate this
stuff. I brought it on with my own stupidity, not having 2 cat-carriers ready
for my move and believing I could use the one for both of them. That was my
first mistake. My 2nd mistake was really believing that I was under some
deadline pressure to be out of that place early enough to unpack on the other
side before it was too late. I had a queen-sized mattress on my car-roof and
all the melting contents of my fridge in the car. So I felt an urgency.

# Mistakes Are Made In Urgency

![Lynnie Cat Was Likely Catnapped But Is Recovered](/assets/images/lynnie-cat-was-likely-catnapped-but-is-recovered.PNG)

In that urgency, I put the easier cat into the carrier first. When it became
clear the 2nd cat wasn't going easily into the carrier, I put the carrier in
the car and figured I'd focus my full effort on manually transferring the 2nd,
but more feisty, cat into the car by-hand.

This was a mistake. I should have stayed another night and gotten a 2nd cat
carrier at PetSmart in the morning, or found a cat carrier or some other
container some other way. The cat got away. I definitely was stupid on that
one, putting the wrong cat in the carrier and trying to transfer the more
feisty one by hand. But I was overconfident in my ability to move one cat to a
car without a carrier.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="_TR5rHCj2yw" %}

I spent a lot of time trying to get Lynnie before I left. I was torn. I almost
unpacked the fridge again, but the electricity in the house was off by this
time. There would have been no point in unpacking. The logical thing was to get
my stuff to my new place an hour-and-a-half away, unpack (including getting
that queen mattress up a flight of stairs) and come back later that night to
retrieve Lynnie with the now-available cat carrier. I would leave the door open
with cat treats inside to get Lynnie back in, and this is exactly what I did.

# I Came Back That Night But Not Before Somebody Else Did

But when I came back that night I was sure I'd find her inside, but when I got
back, the side-door was closed and the cat treats were broken up (by hand,
they're like a chocolate bar) and spread around. There were other things like
the grilling under the deck pushed-in and the rake that I left in a different
place. Someone clearly had been in the house.

This is a fact. In talks since, a few folks have insisted this is the way it is
with cats. They will disappear for a few days and then reappear. But Lynnie has
had her occasional outdoor adventures and has always stayed close and come
back. She has well-established hiding places I could find her.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="8vDNjAofEnY" %}

# Someone Was Inside My Place Between 9:30 PM and 3:30 AM

Someone being inside my place struck me as strange and creepy, but I didn't
think they had the actually caught my cat or there would have been some sort of
note. Malicious intent was the last thing on my mind. It had to be my wife and
her friend who weren't accompanying me on the move but when I asked them, they
said they had not been in the house. Spooky!

# Spooked But Not Worried

And the cat had my contact info on the collar and I didn't receive a call. The
alternative that they did catch my cat and had no intention of contacting me
was so unthinkable that I put it out of my mind. So I figured the cat escaped
them too (though I see now I should have pursued this avenue more
aggressively), and I came back the following night with no luck. Finally, on my
third time back, I was convinced someone had my cat, and I started piecing it
together.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="-JXKqXN3CTs" %}

# I Apparently Had "Bad Karma" I Didn't Know About

Earlier that week, a neighbor who I was comforting over their own things going
on told me (or perhaps let it slip?) that I had bad karma in the neighborhood
from rearranging part of a stone-wall on the property to better accommodate a
tree-swing. I made the stone wall a few feet shorter as a safety precaution
against smashing feet into it from a tree-swing I had put up in one of the few
possible locations. This neighbor so much as told me that I was going to pay. I
was quite taken aback, and I was like "Who"? And "Pay how?" I was met only with
a strange "oh, you'll find out" look.

# What Would Have Happened If The Cat Didn't Get Loose?

It was a strangely passionate warning, and my cat escaping clearly gave someone
the opportunity they were looking for. I wonder what would have happened to the
property if the cat incident wasn't there. The damage they did to the grilling
under the deck shows me they clearly don't have an issue with property damage.
Maybe there plan was to get me in trouble with the landlords somehow. Is this
not over? Well, document, document, document!

I have pictures of every inside room and outside the house. If something
changes between my having left the property and the landlords returning, I will
be able to show the before-and-after.

So if it was one of the neighbors that this neighbor told me I had bad karma
with, who could it be?

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="rSYrLSKOlgg" %}

Oh, is it that perpetual Facebook-group bellyacher? There is this one person
always posting grievances on the unofficial community Facebook page with the
same first name as a reclusive mystery-neighbor that my drunk neighbor implied.
Could they be one and the same? If so, I had a very powerful lever to try
pulling.

I knew that if I posted the situation on Facebook drawing the attention of
everybody who might know somebody close to me who wasn't above catnapping, it'd
ripple through the grapevine like lightning. So I wrote this post and 10
minutes later, Lynnie was back.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="ZMQes-LPs1E" %}

Let me repeat that. After 3 solid days of calling for Lynnie, shaking her
treats, putting food out, setting up a humane-trap, checking under every patio
deck and hidey-hole, and generally camping out and awaiting the return of a cat
who never didn't come immediately back before, she appeared 10 minutes after
making this Facebook post. It was while I was on the street shaking treats and
calling. I even think I saw her bolting back towards the house, but it was
mostly in shadows and just the sound of a fast-moving animal.

When I got back to the house that I had re-opened the sliding-door to, Lynnie
was in the house. And yes, I thoroughly checked the house several times over
the prior days after hopeful door-opening sessions.

But there she was now suddenly, 10-minutes after the call-out. Coincidence?
Maybe. But there were already comments on the post so I knew it was being read.
I even scheduled an event for 9:30 AM the following morning to discuss who
might have Lynnie, which I deleted along with the post after Lynnie showed up,
because that place has enough drama without outing catnappers.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="GDW5t4xcTFQ" %}

The loose-lipped neighbor called me back the next morning playing it off like
it didn't happen. My gaslighting detector was blaring like a siren. And then at
9:35 AM someone (a name I recognized) tried Facebook-calling me in connection
with the cancelled Facebook event. I had the cat back and there was nothing to
discuss. If someone wanted to tell me they had my cat and was waiting before
they called the cellphone number that was on the collar until some
such-and-such time, they can go eff themselves.

There's not a lot of people who knew I was leaving at 9:30 PM June 30th and
this was one of them. The sliding-glass door I left open for my cat was closed
when I got back, period. My cat was gone for the next 2 nights. I might have
wanted to not believe it, but I'm not a dumbass. Your drunk neighbor who I was
trying to comfort in their tough times so much as told me. And if there was any
doubt, the cat running back into the house 10 minutes after my publishing this
confirmed it.

# The Facebook Post On The Community Group That Freed My Cat

    Between 9:30 PM and 3:30 AM on June 30th, 2022 of my last day of rental at
    [mountain resort community], my cat Lynnie escaped in transfer. I brought my
    2nd cat and packed car to my new place having left treats and the side door
    open. I planned on getting back and closing the door to retrieve my cat who
    would be inside.

    The problem is that somebody already had. The sliding door was closed and my
    heart sank. I went inside to find the treats broken smaller and spread around.
    The cat was not in the house. Outside the grilling under the deck where the cat
    hangs out was broken as of someone pushing through and the rake was left in an
    odd place.

    I held out hope that this was innocent. I've been coming back looking for
    Lynnie every day. I see now that this is in vain and somebody took advantage of
    this window to steal my cat. I hope poor Lynnie is still alive and this was not
    in vengeance for me reworking the end of the previous Michael's stone wall to
    be safer against foot smashing when using the tree swing.

    A neighbor told me I was going to suffer bad karma for that. I have
    reconstructed the wall to close to original form. When the neighbor who told me
    of my bad luck to come saw me this morning and I waved friendly to them, they
    zoomed away. I feel I incurred the wrath of a vengeful neighbor. Please let
    Lynnie go. Open your door and let her out if she is still alive.

    If she is not still alive, please let this weigh heavily upon your soul as you
    await judgement. And I don't mean only in the afterlife while there is that
    too, this will go on Reddit if Lynnie does not reappear. I will be in the
    neighborhood tonight calling for her. Find salvation. Anonymous tips welcome.


<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/refresh-your-mind-with-the-lxd-api/">Refresh Your Mind With The LXD API</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/adding-the-who-what-why-when-where-how-to-site-nav/">Adding the Who, What, Why, When, Where & How To Site Nav</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul></ul>