---
date: 2022-10-26
title: Is Dark Energy Consciousness Choosing Gated Communities Over Heat Death?
headline: Exploring the Possibility of Dark Energy Consciousness and Its Implications for Computing
description: This article explores the possibility of dark energy consciousness existing in the universe and its implications for computing. I discuss the implications of digital electronics and how bifurcation can lead to exponential growth. I question the possibility of free-will in a seemingly deterministic system, ponder the idea of self-grown aliens, and consider the implications of a universe with an accelerating expansion that cannot be explained. Read on to explore these fascinating concepts and to discover what they mean for the future of computing.
keywords: Dark Energy, Consciousness, Gated Communities, Heat Death, Digital Electronics, Bifurcation, Exponential Growth, Free-Will, Self-Grown Aliens, Accelerating Expansion, Superconducting Quantum Computers, Machine Learning, Neural Networks, Low-Power Chip, Black Hole, Quantum Loop, Pixel, Time, Space, Universal Constants, Fine-Tuned, Infinity, Aliens, Big Bang, Decelerating Expansion
categories: consciousness, machine learning
permalink: /blog/is-dark-energy-consciousness-choosing-gated-communities-over-heat-death/
layout: post
---


Quantum Mechanical Interferometers exist. OMG. Measurements are becoming more
and more accurate. We may not be able to see electrons, quarks and neutrinos
directly.

I present this article mostly as one would a science fiction plot premise. If
you haven't already, read Vernor Vinge's A Fire Upon The Deep. It postulates
the power-level of beings in the galaxy being related to their distance from
the center of the galaxy. Those closer to the center, the faster you think and
live—quite differently than here moving at a million miles a day, in the outer
spiral arm, at 40, 000 miles an hour, of a galaxy we call the Milky Way. We're
in "the slow". I love Vernor Vinge's embracing of what we know in physics as
part of a geogalactic setting that could also explain universal, or at least
galactic, constants.

There's a lot that we can't calculate today and  a lot that we can't observe
today. Calculating power gets better and experiments we can carry out and
observations we can make become more precise. Already we can make computer
circuits with electron traces only several atoms thick. Experiment after
experiment reveals techniques to interact with matter at these very tiny
scales. We use this ability to create an explosion in our very own
computing-power.

Superconducting quantum computers you could fit on a low-power chip with
thousands of qubits that enables a neural net and machine learning is maybe in
our lifetimes. Starwars level robots would be a cinch. It's only now
refinement, scaling and power sources. Sound incredible? How incredible does
billions of transistors upon a silicon chip sound to folks in the age of Eniac
vacuum tube computers of the 1960s? Where we are today is already the result of
radical progress in just our lifetimes. We're about to see it again, times a
hundred… a thousand?

I think people underestimate the positive creative forces being unleashed as
hardware grows beyond the old architectures designed mostly for a centralized
model. It was called the CPU for centralized processor unit, in fact. It was
because it was designed in a time of resource and manufacturing scarcity and a
fixation on binary deterministic approaches. Creating neural networks with
analog features on the sensors was unthinkable in those days if even from the
software standpoint. The Harvard architecture that called for a CPU just made
sense in those days. Less-so today.

From Google's TensorFlow chips to the Apple AI face recognition circuits,
specialized hardware is evolving fast for faster AI-behavior, and perchance
less deterministic behavior. Today's Boolean-logic based machines see things in
black and white. They're binary. There's no inherent vector-quantities baked-in
as there is in a seemingly analog-world. Things are always divisible by half.
Achilles Zeno paradox. You can never really ever reach a wall and such. As you
keep subdividing, it could go on forever but that does not match our
experience. Arrows reach walls. Achilles catches up with the Tortoise. So
what's up with that?

Turns out reality gets cloudy down at those most subdivided bits. So far as the
best I'm reading of popular-audience books by Carlo Rovelli, Max Tegmark and
such is that you can subdivide with experimental physics down to something that
mostly results in quarks and electrons so far as our first-hand experience can
testify. But there's a lot unaccounted for around the infinities, zooming both
big and small. Things get fuzzy.

Today's digital electronics deals with the infinitely divisible universe by
forcing all its constituent parts into bits of on or off. But that's not the
way the world seems to work. Bits are but a rounding-off of the information
that's really there—in a way. Diffuse clouds of probability that can no longer
be subdivided seem to kick in at around 1 Planck unit of timespace which also
happens to me the theoretical smallest size for a black hole. Quantum Loop
Gravity is the name and Carlo Rovelli is its voice. In my own worlds, that's a
pixel of existence, though you'll be corrected for making a gross and
misleading simplification.

A 1 Planck-unit black hole that can collapse in on itself no further should not
be thought of as the fundamentally smallest particle on the Standard Model, but
rather as a valid universe or smallest possible unit of universe possible. It's
a pixel of both time and space, both of which we know are flexible, and part of
an even bigger whole, at least after the Big Bang. Our universe is a single
such Planck-unit universe that has expanded and subdivided greatly.

Before expansion, all existence is an single, uninteresting super-condensed
particle which is also all spacetime because here there is no distinction
between particle and universe. There is no "apartness" yet. And then there was.
Call it reflection. Call it the first instance of bifurcation (like
cell-division). This times-two and then times-two again geometric duplication
of things is bifurcation.

Bifurcation can make small things grow big real quickly. Exponential growth.
Logarithmic growth. Branching exponential logarithmic growth. Whatever. It's
what makes things that swarm and self-replicate so dangerous. They readily
consume all resources, but them before long, you've got homogeneity and things
get perhaps uninteresting, unstable, and collapse under the weight of their
evenly distributedness of the heat death of the universe.

The majority of what the universe is actually made from could be beyond our
observable abilities. Our observations so far tell us this. Calculating based
on the background radio-emissions constituted by echoing reverberations of the
Big Bang and redshift light wavelength alteration due to the Doppler effect and
Einstein's Relativity, the universe is about 13.7 billion years old and we're
all very impressed by how Universal Constants like the speed of light seem
fine-tuned to support our existence.

Questions of anthropomorphism arise and philosophy and the awareness of our own
self-awareness call "fundamentals" into question. Either God doesn't play dice
with the Universe or deliberately and still inexplicably does. Shut up and
calculate as an interpretation of Quantum Mechanics also known as the
Copenhagen interpretation. It's akin to saying pay no attention to the man
behind the curtain in the Wizard of Oz and allowing yourself to still be scared
by the big floating head.

Huge puzzles face us and in their solving we expect a truer, deeper
understanding of our world and by extension existence, self-awareness and the
like. And through this better understanding we can perchance a "better" more
angelic existence. Guaranteed basic income. Free education. Not wiping out
humanity for a few Aeons. Being good stewards of the material world and
eventually, those within the population who are actually interested, can get to
walk with the creator.

Do you believe in infinity? Calculating the decimal value of Pi? Are you
kidding? What is the base-10 decimal system anyway? How would aliens draw Pi?
Probably a circle with a line drawn across it—calculation done. Sorry Theta,
you're gonna have to trade spots. Cut and flatten a circle. Put it next to the
line that was going across it. These two lines side-by-side, that's also Pi.
The chances of aliens using our classic symbol for Pi as Pi are almost
non-existent, and why should we if we want to speak the universal language of
math?

Anyway, our math and science and observations and measurements of the cosmic
background radiation tells us the universe is starting to speed up expanding
again after a period of slow-down. This seems somewhat ridiculous. I presume
there was an inflection point there somewhere when a getting-ready-to-collapse
universe decelerated to a stand-still and then started to expand again. That
must have been quite a party throughout the universe.

The question of whether we should all just all get together and be one happy
and potentially sentient being, perhaps type 4 on the Kardashev scale, during
big collapse was answered. The victors of lonely individuality partied with
others of their kind, neither eating nor being eaten my another Type-1 or above
civilization. The re-expansion of the universe, if lumps of isolated
individuality overcoming entropy and the 2nd law of thermodynamics can be
overwritten by, you know, life then cosmic gated communities will exist.

If that inflection point is behind us, it means whatever cosmic Shakespearean
drama has likely already played out in setting this cosmological constant. That
final fine-tuning of cosmological constants which May at first been
anthropomorphic in nature may no longer be so thanks to some transcendent
beings who said, I like existing, thank you very much. Expand again, we shall!
I don't want to mingle with that riffraff.

Can free-will be created by and within a system of a seemingly deterministic
nature? Can a creator make creations that can create things the original
creator couldn't? Can mere complexity, chaos, turbulence and all the nuance of
really hard math explain all this? Complexity and impossibility of knowing
precise initial conditions prevent free-will (and Superdeterminism for that
matter) from ever really being tested and ruled out as Bell's Theorem claims to
do? There is really only one experiment I can imagine.

You take a universe and put it in motion. Chances are this amounts to nothing
more than throwing a pebble into a pond when you're purely abstract and
(love-worthy) mathematical in nature. You're naturally going to have a lot of
questions. Such is the likely nature of God, all-questioning rather than
all-knowing. Ripples rebound and interfere. Bifurcation. Reflection. Forces.
Senses. Evolution. This article.

That a requirement to employ the notion of true-random is required for Quantum
Theory to graduate to Quantum Mechanics is a hoot! The fact that there's a
Superdeterminism versus free-will/true-random schism in science right now makes
right now an astounding time to be alive. This years Nobel Prize winners in
Physics have again allegedly proven quantum non-locality as real, but you have
to watch your postulates and axioms. You can't disprove superdeterminism. And
so far we haven't been able to disprove uncertainty. It's quite a pickle.

Quantum circuits, or electronics that relies on quantum effects to calculate,
are the likely bridge between ultimately deterministic systems. The time of
computers being able to exert free-will to an extent where humanity's option as
to whether it's real or not doesn't rally matter is about here.

We're incubating wave after wave of self-grown aliens—that is until they're
able to have sympathy and other human-like emotions sufficiently to call them
our children and heirs. Sympathy is context-based and fine-tuned resulting from
genetics, experience and memory. Sympathy is highly mammalian, or at least
animal. Most functions of the brain are not even the higher-cognition executive
function stuff that has us so fascinated. And the non-higher cognition stuff is
also scary because it drives living things to feed and breed. It'd be really
easy to get in the way of the wrong sort of lifeform.

There's a very good chance that different forms of like may simply not be able
to co-exist peacefully and if that's the case, as much distance as possible
between them is a good idea. At some point in the universe's history after the
bigbang, the decelerating expansion reversed and became accelerating expansion.
Curious, no? Readers of Vernor Vinge's A Fire Upon The Deep may recognize
parallels between this unexplainable event that makes us postulate Dark Energy
and what the transcendent beings of the near-galactic-core did to "reset"
geogalactic stability in light of the blight.

Hmmmm.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/how-do-i-not-have-a-portable-power-station-already/">How Do I Not Have a Portable Power Station Already?</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/reversing-desensitization-and-dehumanization/">Reversing Desensitization And Dehumanization</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/consciousness/'>Consciousness</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/machine-learning/'>Machine Learning</a></h4></li></ul>