---
date: 2022-04-10
title: Teaching My Wife vim
headline: "Learning Vim Together: My Journey of Teaching My Wife a Timeless Technology"
description: I'm teaching my wife vim, which I use to copy and paste text files and back up code to Github. I've been using vim for decades, and I'm excited to help my wife learn this timeless technology. I overcame my own negative experience with vim to understand its importance, and I'm enjoying the meaningful experience of helping my wife learn it.
keywords: Vim, Copy-Paste, Text-Files, Back-Up, Code, Github, Timeless-Technology, Virtual-Desktops, Amiga-Computer, Mainstream-Tech, Productivity, Linux, Emacs, Journey, Learning
categories: vim, productivity, linux, git, emacs
permalink: /blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/
layout: post
group: blog
---


I'm in the process of teaching my wife vim. This was a long time in coming. I
could tell from her watching me vim-journal from time to time that she had
those pangs of "capability-jealousy" and I may have inadvertently triggered her
by having to "think out loud" to myself as I typed and thought and thought and
typed, right as I am doing right now. It may appear to be the ultimate
meta-process, thinking out loud to yourself in vim, were it not for emacs. I
think that thinking out loud to yourself in emacs would be even more meta.

But I digress. Clearly I've switched my mindset to public audience in my
private journal typing here. Okay, commit myself:

    :badd ../whatsametafor/index.md:
    :w
    [shift]+v
    (smosh on k a bunch)
    y[Enter]
    :bn
    j & k to position
    p

...and here I am typing again right under where I pasted. How's that for meta
for you? What just happened here is that I started out journaling for the day
in my normal daily journal, which is in one folder under github (a consistent
location I store all github repos) and I loaded a file from a folder sitting
next to it, named for the site that's published via Github.io Jekyll
integration from there. So I'm web-publishing just by copy/pasting between text
files and doing nothing more than the git commits and pushes that you'd do for
any repo you kept in Github. In other words, there's no more work to
web-publishing these days than there is backing up your code to Github or some
other git repository the way everyone should be doing these days anyway

My life: good dev habits lead to web-publishing merely by remembering to
copy/paste the parts you write with an audience in mind to the appropriate text
file. Better still, catch yourself early as your audience-targeting shifts and
copy/paste immediately and continue your typing over in that repo, exclusively.

Sure it leaves the double-entry out of your main journal and a sense of
everything-included continuity the main journal could acquire. But the
theoretical value in that is far outweighed by the near certainty that the
inspired writing is actually going to be committed and pushed in a timely and
reasonable fashion. Too often I stay in my private journal thinking I'll
copy/paste later and I never do. Then it's too much work to sort out public
from private, because my mind is no longer in that same place it was when I
wrote the material.

And so here I am on whatsametafor.io, one of my all-time best wordplay domain
names and one of my few ventures into a non-.com TLD. I'm still a bit skeptical
of .NET seeing as how even that was a target of Microsoft embrace-and-displace.
TLDs other that .com are in various ways corruptible. We saw that with the .tv
and .me extension where the issuing country can jack rates until nobody wants
to renew. I gave up a **myname**.me domain over renewal rates. I used it as the
custom domain for my personal Tumblr account, back when that was a thing.

Anyhoo, I think in vim. It's clear when I'm "seen" typing. I have a different
process than most. I was missing something in life. I knew what it felt like
from time to time. It felt like Cygnus Editor on the old Amiga Computer, more
commonly known as CED. I take that back. It's not commonly known at all. In
fact I'd be surprised if a single person ever reading this has ever heard of
the CED editor on the Amiga before this. On Windows PCs circa Windows 3.1 and
95, there was PFE, the Programmer's File Editor. PFE is a great editor even to
today with it's macro record/playback muscle-memory friendliness. I might even
be still using it today if I didn't have to become multi-platform (Macs, Linux,
etc.) and it's lack of syntax color-code highlighting. Yes, I do like some
"power-tool" features, but thankfully so does Bram Moolenaar, the creator of
vim. Vim is multi-platform, but really, get your ass on vim... on Linux.

People find "grounding" in different ways. I find grounding on screen number
one in a ribbon of virtual desktops. All mainstream OS's support them these
days. They are accessed on Windows, the most dominant platform still today, by
tapping the Windows+Tab key together. It'll do a nice zoomed animated effect.
Mac had this first slightly different by another name. It's always that way.
Get past the tiny OS difference. In 5 minutes you can adapt to that sort of
tiny key remapping new-normal. It's the lack of virtual desktops altogether
that would be devastating, like what happened to me for a quarter-century after
the Amiga computer went away, along with my beloved Amiga+N blazingly fast
full-screen flipping it allowed... in the 80s!

Well ladies, gentlemen and others, modern mainstream tech has finally caught up
to the kooky stuff from the 1980s, and it's time you looked closely at these
features and benefited. I can see that most won't. Virtual desktops are a
mystery and more of a hindrance to productivity with mysteriously disappearing
loaded apps and inconsistent appearance of icons on the task-bar. This is a
shame as it is the single largest productivity-boosting and quite grounding
techniques one can use on computers these days.

You can organize your thoughts. They always occur in a full-screen instance of
vim on the first in a ribbon of left-to-right virtual desktops... or at least
they do for me. I am fully and firmly in the habit of having my first screen
full-screen vim with the same text-file loaded all the time. It is my daily
journal. I keep it for life. I occasionally back-fill it with text-archives I
discover in from lost data-archives in personal archaeology excavations. And of
course it can't go THAT far back. I'm putting back scanning my personal paper
journals which I kept until I came to New York and got married. For reasons I
am only now beginning to understand, paper journals had to go away and I had to
switch my thinking-out-loud methods off of paper and onto something which I
knew had to feel like CED or PFE.

vim was first released for the Amiga computer in 1991 on Fred Fish disk 591. I
remember this. I learned about it in the Philadelphia Amiga Users Group, of
which I was president there for awhile, meeting at Drexel University, the first
college to require all their incoming students, CompSci-majors or not, to buy
computers. And there I was a student and leading the computer club for an
"enemy" computer there on their campus. Amiga had a rebel streak. vim came out
on a rebel computer. I briefly looked at vim, probably loaded it a few times,
it didn't truly "get" it was to be my future heir apparent to CED and PFE.

I forgot about vim for a few decades. Then Microsoft Active Server Pages went
away. I invested my heart, soul and know-how into what I figured was dominant
platform couldn't-fail, wouldn't let-me-down proprietary alternative to the
LAMP platform. Linux, Apache, MyPHP and PERL were all a bit too scary for me at
the time. Microsoft .asp-files with SQLServer and IIS was just easier. It's
what everyone had running in their business and making websites from that made
me relevant and valuable in the marketplace. How quickly reality changes!

Your ability to easily manage your Web-code in the editor of your choice, such
as PFE, EditPlus (which I used), NotePad++ and such also went away with the
.asp world. A mere "x" was added: .aspx. Alas, in that x were a cascading and
crushing set of details that made all the difference. If you wanted to make the
move to ASP.NET you were using VSCode.NET or you were suffering. There was no
way to manage all those codebehinds and viewstates if you didn't fully
lean-into and embrace marketing & fad-driven vendor products.

I "got it". I finally understood that there were at least 2-classes of tech.
There was timeless stuff that you just kept hearing of and it seemed to never
go away. Then there was the stuff vendors were trying to make money off of you
every year with. There was a third-class, really. But this third class was of
the sort that no matter how good it was, it was going away anyway because of
the volatility of the platform it was made for, the lack of ongoing developer
support or dedication, and the non-portability between platforms. This are
things like CED and PFE. Gems that shined bright for blips in time. Vim comes
from vi that started shining bright in 1976 and is still shining bright in
seemingly endless variety, including one dominant one today: vim.

I balked against vim at first. When I started dabbling with Mandrake Linux back
in 1999 and toyed with moving Scala Multimedia's Website over to LAMP from ASP
a person I respected very little said in a pompous tone: "Well then I guess
you'll be brushing up on your vim skills" to which I shot-back, I can use
pico/nano very effectively to edit text files, thank-you-very-much. Close brush
number-two with vim. I did not switch to LAMP in the early 2000s. Instead, I
stayed on ASP, moved to NYC, became a vice president of a public relations
company, and slowly drifted into the oblivion of a bad marriage and sudden soil
liquefaction of all the tech that gave me superpowers.

Ugh! The pain. The betrayal. I don't learn things easily. And when I finally
learned I had to get my ass of Microsoft and EVERYONE ELSE TOO whose intentions
regarding my dependencies was not noble. And so I discovered free and open
source software, it's long, interesting history, and the text editor wars. I
thought surely both emacs and vi must have died out by now. There could not be
software so good from the 1960s and 70s that could still be in regular use
today. How wrong I was. And when I corrected my wrongness and chose
videogame-like muscle-memory-biased approach of vim over the deeply
macro-oriented and customization-biased approach of emacs, I suffered my way
through the first legs of my vim adventures... on Linux. Because I quickly
learned, it had to be on Linux.

And so now I go through this same adventure with my wife.

It is deeply meaningful. It's hard for me to imagine other people have similar
"tool betrayal" issues as me that could lead them to such radical steps as
dabbling in a non-graphical user interface these days.

Hope.

<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/jupyter-notebooks-are-dev-tools-with-nbdev/">Jupyter Notebooks Are Dev Tools With nbdev</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/teaching-my-wife-vim/">Teaching My Wife vim</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/productivity/'>Productivity</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/emacs/'>Emacs</a></h4></li></ul>