---
date: 2022-12-15
title: Managing Static Vs. Dynamic Leads to Practical Fusion & a Better You
headline: "Navigating Childhood to Adulthood: Finding Balance in Static and Dynamic States"
description: As a parent, I am helping my preteen navigate the transition from childhood to adulthood by encouraging them to observe, ask questions, and narrate their experiences. I am teaching them the importance of both static and dynamic states of being, which are both necessary for growth, from developing atomic energy to the inner workings of our own lives. I am also reflecting on my own journey of self-inspection and self-modification, which I had to do in order to grow and develop during transitional periods.
keywords: Parenting, Preteens, Transition, Childhood, Adulthood, Static, Dynamic, Observation, Questions, Narration, Growth, Atomic Energy, Self-Inspection, Self-Modification, Development, Crawling, Walking, Talking, Self-Awareness, Decisions
categories: development
permalink: /blog/managing-static-vs-dynamic-leads-to-practical-fusion-a-better-you/
layout: post
---


Yesterday my kid called me in tears over being forced to go to scouts. They are
homeschooled and I moved back into the state 6 months ago because such calls
were becoming more frequent. They are twelve and there's a lot of important
formative transitions going on from child to adult. This is both in the body
and the mind. With my not being as present as I'd like 5 out of 7 days of the
week, I'm focusing on body, making sure they're fed well enough on the weekends
in terms of protein and vitamins to cover for the rest of the week, which while
may not be bad, is unknown to me. And so I take precautions. With one's natural
predispositions plus enough of the right fuel and enough sleep, one can sort
out almost any problems. I see the kid has many of the right predispositions.
Fuel is taken care of. Sleep is an issue because they don't like to go to
sleep, but I let them sleep generally as late as they need. I've been
reprimanded for allowing that to go too late into the day, twice I think, so I
do a courtesy wake-up shout into the bedroom usually at about 11:30 AM now.

Entries like this certainly belong in my personal journal. But do they belong
here? We are always in transition in life, and few more so than children going
from preteen to teen. A lot of big decisions are made during these years that
resonate forward through time and set your path in life. If you despise certain
things, you are going to despise them for a very long time with a very closed
mind. Open mindedness isn't something associated with teens very much. It's one
of the first big rounds in life of shutting-down and switching yourself from
the more exploratory child-like wonder-driven mode of a child to a more static
know-it-all mode of an adult. It takes awhile in adulthood to switch back to
the wonder-driven child-like mode again, if at all. Scientists I believe stay
in that always-amazed and always trying to know the unknown state--except maybe
those in traditional anthropology who hate what Graham Hancock proposes about
an apocalyptic flood wiping out ancient civilizations around 12,800 years ago.
Those scientists lost the wonder.

I see my role as helping my preteen transitioning into adulthood to keep an
open mind about things and to question much of what they've been told as
absolute truth. It's not that you should reject everything and be stuck in a
state of rebellion for rebellion's sake, a too-easy trap that plays right into
teenage angst, but rather to keep observing, asking questions, and narrating
the entire thing to yourself so you can her it from as close to an objective
viewpoint as one can muster internally. I used to call it "the observation
game" with my kid growing up. The depth of what I am instilling into the with
the observation game is probably still lost on them, but my goal is that with
the right gentle prodding here and there, they will repeatedly hit the
mind-opening events that keep you dynamic; stable, but still dynamic.

As in programming, dynamic is generally less stable than static and can blow up
on you. The use of a list datatype over a tuple will often drive your program
to excessive resource consumption and cause all sorts of unexpected behavior.
In many applications, this unexpected behavior is what you want and are looking
for by using the dynamic datatypes. Dynamic datatypes are rather open-ended and
less predictable and deterministic than static datatypes. So use static
datatypes for stability, right? Well, something running in a highly predictable
and stable way lulls you into an illusion, a false sense of security from which
you receive unexpected and often terminal wake-up calls.

Sometimes having the wrong assumptions going into your static beliefs and
systems built around those beliefs can be fatal. Sometimes it just sets you up
for a good story-arc and the hero's journey. You settle into a static state,
receive a wake-up call and then undergo some sort of growth that makes you all
the better for it. J.R.R. Tolkien and George Lucas were masters of this. We
deal with identical static vs. dynamic personal growth issues at different
scales within our own lives, and it is urgent that we talk about and address
them, and thus this being on the public side.

It takes a long time to internalize what's implied behind the words "static"
and "dynamic". It's other one of those things which when a statically-inclined
individual thinks they've figured out, the will latch onto with ferocity. When
the webserver does work to build a page as if from a database and variable
user-input, then it's a dynamic site. But when the site is served from
pre-generated "static" HTML files sitting on the hard drive, then it's a static
site, right? And static sites do better in search engines than dynamic pages
because they're faster and easier for the engines to read, right? Well, yes in
some cases. But what if those static HTML files are generated every night to
reflect new conditions. Is it still then a static site? Or is it a static site
with a dynamic element running intermittently in the background? Labels,
labels, labels! The reality of the situation is always in the nuance and
details for which (mostly static) people want to tune-out. A dynamic person
will at least hear you out.

We are entering a time in history of greater change than ever before. Arguably,
our discoveries of atomic energy kicked it all off, and that was almost 100
years ago. Enrico Fermi deduced atomic power in the 1930s, peeling away the
layers of mystery surrounding radioactive decay, such as present in bananas. It
was only about a decade to go from the insights to the atomic bomb. We
survived. Around the same time in the 1930s, another aspect of Einstein's E =
mcÂ² equation was shown to be responsible for the burning of the stars in the
sky by Hans Bethe. It took 10 more years than the atomic bomb (fission in 1942)
before fusion was demonstrated here on earth with the Hydrogen bomb in 1952. It
took 70 more years, from November 1 1952 to December 5, 2022 before we
demonstrated that we could harness this power effectively in anything other
than a bomb.

The stabilizing of a volatile, dynamic process enabled non-weapon fusion.
Profound attention to detail and nuance and a tour de force of self-regulation
with rules based upon those details and nuance in controlling all those lasers
and conditions allowed it. The subtle dance between the dynamic state of
explosion and the static state of magnetic containment allowed it. More
energy-out than energy-in was not (is not) a given. Someday we will look at it
as an assumed fact of life, overlooking the complexity that goes into baking a
star-in-a-jar and yawn with the ho-hum mundaneness with which we look at the
controlled explosions in our fossil-fuel powered combustion engines in most of
our cars. But today's cars are basically just controlled bombs. Fusion energy,
same thing. Dynamic explosions with a leash thrown onto it. Intrepid dynamic
thinkers enable the ho-hum mundane lives of comfy-cozy static-state livers.

So it is inside each of us. Static states are simpler. Programmers brought up
through traditional computer science will vehemently defend static-typed
variables in your programming for a reliable compile and fast, optimized and
deterministic execution. That's great for air traffic control systems and other
things that need near-100% reliability and the fastest runtimes possible, but
it's not so great when trying to teach a computer to think. Emergent properties
generally come from dynamic systems, often full of duck-typed variables and
mutable (changeable) objects. You can't compile such programs for optimized
runtime executables. There's lots of tricks you can do to speed it up using
caches and such as we see in the performance optimizations of Python 3.11. But
still, Python code will run slower than compiled C because sometimes Python
code writes Python code, which is not yet optimized. Self-referentiality is a
dynamic thing. Self-inspection and self-modification is a dynamic thing.

In our lives, we must self-inspect and self-modify from time to time. There are
big transitional times in our lives where we simply must, or die. In our early
years these things are automatic and result from our evolutionary and genetic
predispositions, such as learning to crawl, walk and talk. After that, most
rules are off. It's in the hands of parents and society to take up where
genetic predispositions leave off and to start programming-up our children.
It's still not very self-referential or meta because outside forces such as
parents and society are applying most of the forces that shape the child. This
all changes between about 6 years old and teen. BAM! Self-awareness.
Self-referentiality. Decisions regarding ones own static-ness vs. dynamicness
are made, sometimes in life-crippling ways and sometimes in life-broadening
ways.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/but-should-we-still-blog-should-it-all-just-fade-away/">But Should We Still Blog? Should It All Just Fade Away?</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/me-vs-chatgpt-tell-me-why-i-should-use-the-python-programming-language/">Me vs. ChatGPT: Tell me why I should use the Python programming language.</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/development/'>Development</a></h4></li></ul>