---
date: 2022-08-18
title: Internalizing Tools Through Eepigenetics
headline: Learning to Embrace My Environment Through Tools and Eepigenetics
description: This article reflects on my journey in life, discussing the concept of epigenetics and Mike Levin, a microbiologist who shares my name and is a hero of mine. I explore my experiences in life, including falling victim to shortcut-seekers and narcissists, and how I am learning to make sure I don't lose myself to someone else. I have embraced my environment by finding my tools, and have realized the importance of incorporating VSCode into my DNA. I discuss the power of text editors.
keywords: Epigenetics, Mike Levin, Shortcut-Seekers, Narcissists, VSCode, Text Editors, Journal, Proto-Intelligence, Free Will, Random Circumstance, Hand, Game of Life, Foam, Glass, Time, Vulnerability, Change, Platform, Web Browser, NodeJS, Server, Vi, Linux, Vim, Python, JavaScript
categories: microsoft, change, linux, javascript, vim, python, text editors, vi
permalink: /blog/internalizing-tools-through-eepigenetics/
layout: post
---


An article like this will start out here in my journal. It was actually
copy/pasted out of the SimpleNote app that lets text flow astoundingly smoothly
between mobile and desktop. Capture your thoughts any way possible. The most
convenient and love-worthy way possible. Just capture your thoughts. Then
copy/paste them into your idea-processing systems. Then if anything is destined
to come of it, continue the idea on its journey to its ultimate destination.
Here I believe it will be as non-blog "main" content on my freshly facelifted
website. This stuff shouldn't have to be searched for in Google. Rather it
should be stumbled upon by anyone stumbling upon my website. Hmmm, remember
StumbleUpon?

I've p laced my chips and it's time to shit or get off the pot. SEOs never met a
metaphor they wouldn't mix. While I've been an SEO for most of my adult life,
it wasn't my first choice. Science and being a scientist was, but apparently I
lacked the passion and commitment to pursue it. Listen to this other Mike Levin
the microbiologist, something of a hero of mine and someone I may never had
discovered had we not shared the same name. He topped the search engine
standings for while until the congressman from California buried us both. Sigh.
We'll, who's searching on my name anyway? It's time to grow through a
fine-tuning of my mission in life and what I'm here on this world to
accomplish.

First off, I'm a dad and having brought another life into this world, helping
my child with their journey is always my number one priority. But everyone's
journey is ultimately their own and I cannot let theirs subsume mine. That's
been one of my biggest stumbling blocks, because I've allowed not my child, but
other adults to rule me for the better part of my adult life. I was still a
man-boy when I came to New York in my late twenties and found myself hunted and
gold-dug. It was not my first time falling victim to shortcut-seekers in life
and narcissists trying to turn their men into self-objects. I was just still
unable to recognize it for what it was and I fell into one of the big pitfall
traps in life. Don't lose yourself to someone else.

We're all born with a hardware vibe. It comes from a sequence of information
encoded into molecules that builds you within a system of profoundly complex
relationships and  interdependencies. No one is an island, but we seem to be
born that way as a single cell borrowing some of the 22 trait-bundled from your
mom and 22 from your dad. Just add the material world. By 2 or 3 you're
beginning to walk and talk. You couldn't even open your eyes or pick up your
head at first. Then you're riding a bicycle and driving. Humans incorporate
tools into their bodies and redefine their own being, leaving that hardware
vibe they're born with in the dust, a mere echo of who they are today. Every
day, you evolve.

That aforementioned Mike Levin covers it well. DNA isn't the whole story. Nor
is your human-like consciousness that's reading this article right now. Now,
every cell in your body is its own distinct organism with its own sort of
brain. We're all just a big cooperation of those critters under the guidance of
our executive function that lifts us just a bit above other animals in our
capacity for self-determination—but not much. Our inner lower-form animals from
which we're built, the worm and the fish and the frog and the lizard, are still
much more in control than we like to give them credit for. Our executive
function's main function sometime seems to be an apologizer and rationalizer
for all their shenanigans.

But humans are able to grab themselves by their own bootstraps and lift
themselves above the dog-eat-dog animal fray. We have the ability to flip-off
the autopilot switch and lift our consciousness a wee bit out of the now moment
to think about past, present and future as if they exist and matter. Killer
cats hunting your tribe in the night got you down? Your watch guard falling
asleep on the job tearing apart the tribe's trust, cohesion and the gene pool?
Maybe those wolves that eat at the trash pile aren't so bad. They bark like a
mofo at the slightest perturbance. Let's raise one of their pups and see if
they can't ale for a better nighttime alarm than Joe the deceased. Ye ol'
technology.

Tools are like that. They get added to the tapestry of complex interdependence
that makes us us. Dogs aren't in our DNA, but they might as well be, like bones
and eyeballs and fingers and all those other tools we actually have
incorporated into our physical bodies over time. We didn't have rigid inside
parts as the single celled blobs we started out as. At some point it tasted
silicon and said yuck! I don't want to replace my flagellum with that. It would
shatter like glass. But the chalky foamy metal calcium which is also available
in slightly less abundance? Yum! I'll make me some shields and swords and
stilts out of that stuff. Random mutations? I think not. Intelligent design? Of
course, but not from some dirty. From the organism and a system of non-genetic
inheritance that allows it—called epigenetics.

We evolve ourselves through force of free will. Random circumstance might lead
to an organism having some proto-intelligence insight, but that calcium gets
put to use as some quite literally internalized tool. It's like a amoeba
sucking in a hammer floating around in the primordial goo. The amoeba's like
now I have a hammer, Ho Ho Ho. Watch out paramecium. Same thing happened with
organisms internalizing whole other organisms making animal-B a permanent
ongoing part of animal-A as is the case with the mitochondria found my the
thousands floating around as little energy-giving powerhouses in each and every
one of the cells that we're built out of. We don't need chlorophyll for
photosynthesis like plants because one of our ancestors gobbled up an anaerobic
little critter that got passed down without it being encoded its genes.

Scale-up to human size like today in your life. Same thing. Sure, you're born
with your 23andme profile. Luck of the dice, as it were. The first hand you're
dealt. Factor in where, when and to what circumstances you're born and you've
got one nutty game of poker in the game of life. Games all just channel aspects
of life so it's no big surprise eternally popular ones like poker are
channeling some of the big important points. We're all dealt some hand, but how
we decide to play that hand is up to us. Blame is for losers. You're in the
game, aren't you? You want to play, don't you? Maybe you're just here as a
curiosity seeker and your hearts really not in it. Well then, die young. Maybe
you're really into it but what happens early in the game was so awful and
unlike your expectations that you… we'll, you again, die young. The great
twenty-eights of deeply emoting passionate artists and all that. Winehouse and
Leger and Hendrix, oh my!

Fpzt Like any game, there's ups and downs. The risk and the thrill and the
discovery is what makes it fun. It's not that we all need to be dopamine
seeking extreme sports nuts. No, maybe serotonin is your drug. Adrenaline
junkie or warm and fuzzy cozy cuddler, we each find things in the game we
value, our own answers to questions we didn't even know (in our human
consciousness) that we had. Yeah, yeah, this is all right on the edge of
spiritualism and that eternal soul stuff. But who knows? Certainly not us, at
least not for sure no matter what any religion or scientist tells you. That's
what makes the game so great. Ultimate answers are withheld until the end.
Maybe. Maybe forever and there's just oblivion. Who knows? But don't let that
get you down. You're alive now and I'd call that nothing short of nigh
impossible. The odds were against it and every little experience you have as a
conscious being is gravy. So show a little gratitude because, you know, just in
case.

I'm over fifty and just getting started. I've scavenged my environment and
found my tools. I've tasted glass and I've tasted solidified foam. I'll build
my bones from foam, thank-you-very much. If you're using VSCode, you're
building your house from glass. Or would that be straw? Either way, beware the
big bad wolf of time and vulnerability to change. Gonna incorporate VSCode's
source into your DNA? You're gonna also need a platform that supports a web
browser there in your DNA too. Oh, and NodeJS running in the background as a
server. A pointer device, don't forget that. And not the “main”VSCode because
the license won't allow it, so you need the free and open source version. And
once VSCode is internalized, are you going to use it to keep a journal? A to-do
list? You know, all those things you can do with text files in your life that's
so valuable? What's that? The user interface is made mostly just for coding, so
you'll need something else too?

Well, why not just start with the eternal and we'll-licensed vim as your text
editor so you can build your house from bricks? Little choices like which text
editor you use manifest in big ways in your life, consequences cascading down
to all the little things in ways you're hardly aware—like a fish not
understanding water. All that stuff that vaguely bothers you today might be
because you never took up vim as your text editor. It's “good enough” and
ubiquitous (always there) because it's smaller version vi is part of the Unix
standard.  Oh, you should take up Unix too—or Linux rather because Linux has
broader hardware support today, better free and open source software
repositories you can immediately tap into and start using, and a system for
scheduling and automation called systemd built-in that's accessible without too
much effort.

All these tools I'm advocating are free and open source and of the eternal
type. The Unix philosophy https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy
states much of it clearly. What's not clear is further stated well by the Free
Software Foundation  https://www.fsf.org/about/ Tools like software becomes a
part of you, a bit of your evolving vibe and who you are as you learn and
master it. One should evolve tools and things built from them that will shatter
like glass inside your body when our under any stress, like the glass blowers
needing to make money off of you, or the ravages of fashion, fads, trends and
time. Unix, and thus Linux, is greatly impervious to the ravages of time. Or
maybe more accurately is aging well, delivering on its Noah's Ark-like promise
of portability and survival. Python's not as fundamental yet, but PERL missed
its chance as the default language of Linux distribution, so Python is on its
way. Lastly, git. Always lastly, git.

Nothing's perfect, least of all git. git reset --hard HEAD^^^  …which is read
while pantomiming a head-smash on each caret. The same guy who made the
Unix-clone Linux made git. He named Linux after himself (Linus Torvald's) and
in one of the greatest acts of self depreciation, self-awareness and redemption
for that massively megalomaniacal act (he didn't know it would become so
popular), he also named git after himself. Linus is an enormous asshole. He
suggests it's surprising dumb people are still alive. He's gentle Finnish
demeanor belies the raging opinionated git beneath. He wouldn't still be in the
game as the leader of his team if he wasn't. Linux wouldn't have had the
massive uptake if he wasn't. Linus isn't perfect, but when good-enough goes
free and open source mainstream with longevity, you've got bones. Lean into it.

Unix was perfected by the same Bell Labs people as who made Unix in the form of
the Plan 9 OS. Who uses Plan 9? What's best does not always win. Even stuff
with the best marketing does not always win. What wins is what's good-enough,
is released early enough so that it becomes adopted by a critical mass of
people, and which becomes too important to fail. If the original providers of
the tech disappear or don't license it well enough, it's reverse engineered
like Linux or picked up by someone else and continued, like vim. The original
vi text editor program on which vim is based was written by Bill Joy, one of
the no longer active grandparents of Unix. But Dutch programmer Bram Moolenaar
picked up the pieces circa 1987 on the Amiga computer and the world is a
different and better place today because of it.

Vi is not as clumsy or random as VSCode; an elegant weapon for a more civilized
age. Bill Joy actually said he would have written vi differently because we are
not as resource strapped as we were back when vi was written—the age of
timesharing, expensive computer time, and painfully slow dial-up connections.
Every keystroke and every bit mattered. Vi was thus constructed as an efficient
“language” to control text from afar. j is down and k is up. Sure, we might be
able to stream movies forever today, but what if you want to edit that textfile
on Mars or that device you managed to connect to in order to change a config
file? Vi and it's descendants like vim and nvi are relevant in every use-case
including making your daily common text-editing work easier. It's got a steep
learning curve, but once you get into the zone with vim, it's like a superpower
and nobody and nothing can take that capability away from you.

Python? Oh, Python. How Guido can Rossum misnamed you. He's Dutch and not
Scandinavian, but he shares the Viking proclivity to name the icy place
Greenland and the green place Iceland. Python is not the constricting
alpha-male macho bro language the name implies. Python is soft and gentle, once
embracing you in its coils it will adopt you and raise you as its own, making
you in many ways as powerful as a C programmer, but without a lifetime of
commitment. If you want C for ultimate power, you can have it. It's built-in.
But if you only want to kick the tires of coding here and there, or just get
your work done while learning as little as possible, it's got you covered there
to. Under Jupyter Notebook, the “Hello World” program is just that. 'hello
world'. You don't even have to press the Shift key. And perhaps the greatest
argument in its favor that it's something you should maybe consider trying is
that it is still as popular as it is today and only growing, even in the face
of JavaScript, the one language to rule them all.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/monitoring-github-pages-github-io-system-for-errors/">Monitoring Github Pages github.io System For Errors</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/i-m-mike-levin-helping-you-fight-obsolescence/">I'm Mike Levin helping you fight obsolescence</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/change/'>Changes</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/javascript/'>JavaScript</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/python/'>Python</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/text-editors/'>Text Editors</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vi/'>Vi</a></h4></li></ul>