---
date: 2022-12-15
title: But Should We Still Blog? Should It All Just Fade Away?
headline: "Adapting to the Changing Rules of SEO: Crafting Evergreen Content and Unpublishing Old Pages"
description: As an SEO, I have been adapting to the changing rules of the game and am now focusing on creating evergreen topic pages with the right level of detail, decrufting my website, and unpublishing old content to make way for new content. I am also striving to publish content in a blog-like long tail style, curating my path to keep up with the changing circumstances. Join me on my journey as I strive to create a website that is both helpful and polished.
keywords: SEO, Evergreen Topic Pages, Decrufting, Unpublishing, Long Tail Style, Curation, Polished Turds, Helpful Content, Linux, Python, Vim, Git, Long Tail SEO, Best Foot Forward SEO, Incumbents, Fading Assets, Interesting Components, Prettier
categories: seo, linux, python, git, vim
permalink: /blog/but-should-we-still-blog-should-it-all-just-fade-away/
layout: post
group: blog
---

category: seo

Thinking through the secnav-ish items on each topnav page. I'm thinking that
for each Linux, Python, vim and git, I could categorize like this:

- My Top Linux Reminders
- Best Resources For Linux
- My Best Essays on Linux Topics
- What Nobody Tells You About Linux
- Biggest 80/20-Rule Wins with Linux
- Deepest Linux rabbit holes to be aware of

I can always recategorize freely because there are no subtopic hub pages off
these main topnav pages. The few top-navigational hub pages are the only hub
pages. There will be no spokes. Or if the homepage is the hub, then the only
spokes are those that appear in the site's cross-cutting navigation. This keeps
potential signal-targets low and focus and concentration high. It's the
opposite of dilution we're looking for here. Ugh, I don't like the undertones
there. Hopefully, this phase will pass. Google's AI systems will be about as
good at identifying quality as ChatGPT is at speaking with a unique,
distinctive voice of its own. That is, not very.

It's pretty clear that Google wants polished-turds as content, supplemented
with click-baity headlines and catchy thumbnails, per their "helpful content"
update and what you can see promoted so assertively in Google Discover.
Artificial manipulation of the system will be suppressed per their "SpamBrain"
update, and so to kick-off the discovery process of Google Discover, your
polished turds must be linked to by genuine news sources which are the "made
sites" of yesteryear. Incumbents open the door to new content by featuring them
in trusted feeds to "be discovered", but not through happenstance links found
throughout the Web, as was the system under the Crawl/Index PageRank system of
yesteryear. Google's old methods are gradually being phased out, replaced by
the new A.I.-driven processes.

Switching from long tail SEO to best foot forward (BFF) SEO is not easy for me.
I've become an expert over the years on how to obfuscate doorway page
generators. That's an unkind way of saying pandering to your audience in ways
that you know will be rewarded because search engines are just not that smart
yet. It was a deliciously easy process and very morally defensible because you
are generally writing exactly what you know your audience wants to hear about.
It's just that you know it will add an incremental small bit of traffic to the
bottom line which will add up with a rinse, lather, repeat publishing cadence.
I made a Web 2.0-era site based on that called HitTail, which had a 16 year
run. The current owners recently retired the site, symbolically representing
the death of long-tail site optimization.

Search engines have gotten smarter. They're not geniuses yet, but they are
pretty darn smart. Tricking the engines, even with a morally justifiable
technique, is becoming harder and harder. So where is all the traffic going if
not to the great unwashed masses of obscure pages that happen to match your
search query better than anything else on the Web? Well to fewer pages
distributed over fewer publishers, of course. It doesn't much to realize that
the zero-sum game of divvying out the attention of each day's answer-seekers is
lumped-up around fewer pages deemed Expert, Authoritative and Trustworthy. In
fact Google coined a term for for these difficult to quantify attributes called
E-A-T, and it's nothing like title-length or keyword density. It might have a
little to do still with PageRank, but instead of links as the main signal, it
uses a preponderance of other signals, letting deep learning AI techniques sort
it all out.

So is this the end of blogging, the ultimate long tail technique? Is it the end
of long-form content on new URLs? Well no because folks like me have so much to
say and where else are you going to put it? Pander to Google's evolving
intelligence but don't pander so much that you give up all that is good and
eternal about blogging. Just think about site architecture and pages that are
even more eternal, or evergreen if you will, than any particular blog post. It
all comes down to extremely long-lived Topic, Category or Hub pages, doesn't
it? Yes. Yes, it does.

Sigh, alright. Site-sculpting it is. We have to create appealing eternal topic
pages with just the right amount of granularity that they don't become pass√©
and yesterdays news over time. Create all the right subtopics of your site
whose keywords will continue to be used in search maybe forever forward, but
don't be so broad as to not be able to compete against the incumbents. There's
undeveloped real estate still here. There's a sweet spot where you can still
break in and displace todays incumbents over time by working your way up to
being even more Expert, Authoritative and Trustworthy than the incumbents y
accumulating a preponderance of impossible to ignore signals over time through
multiple channels which Google can analyze.

So are we scrapping and rebuilding our sites? No, though there will be a
serious phase of decrufting. If it's not helpful to your users then it's
harmful to your overall site and SERP standings on all topics addressed my your
site. Google has transformed all that doorway page content which we all
generated under the auspices of blogging and long-tail optimization into a ball
and chain dragging you under. However, if you're generating your content as a
result of sharing your daily steam of consciousness, should you be punished?
The same goes for content on YouTube. The old rules of more-is-better may have
been totally reversed, creating a dampening effect stopping any of your new
content from ever achieving escape velocity under today's algorithms. You can
see this in the analytics trends and the beginning of a break-out followed by
the big-old smackdown.

So if you're not an incumbent, you're dead? If you're not a "made man" you're
on the outside? It's funny that performing a hit is one of the biggest parts of
becoming a wise guy because it both takes out a competitor and elevates
yourself. Shutout momentum. Game theory that favors the well-resourced
old-timers still willing to whack up and comers. Okay fine, so be it. So how do
we little folks and tinkerers in Web publishing compete? It's worth noting I am
an expert advisor to some of these old-timey publishers whose mission now is
just to adapt to not be knocked off (rather than breaking in). But that's if
less interest to me than breaking in. I think I want to break in for myself as
a retirement gig.

My plan is to lean in hard on both sites of the equation. I will indeed decruft
my site. This is indeed a bitter pill to swallow because I have gone to great
lengths to preserve some of my pretty ancient content over various migrations,
most recently off of WordPress and onto the markdown and the Jekyll static site
generator of GitHub Pages. This is much better for my as a vim user as I can
use my preferred method of manipulating text to manage an entire site. But
alas, this becomes part of the history of my site's git repo. That is to say,
100% retrievable and recoverable, but also more than just de-linked from
published locations. After my decrufting, old content will be unpublished and
simply lurking as fodder for potential future content. Many once-performing
long-tail URL will simply vanish in a poof with no redirect. No 301 permanent
redirect because these pages ceased to produce even the trickle of long-tail
traffic months ago.

In short, I just can't shut up. And the things I just can't sit up about
recently will continue to be published in a blog-like long tail style.

There are rules in life. Rarely are they absolute, because things changes. We
may not hope for such change, but we should expect it. Everything comes from
the first mere wisps of a beginning. But once something takes root, there are
many routes to fruitful completion, however path curating must be performed to
keep tweaking circumstances towards your vision or intent. If you have no

Both truth and shit float. So if you want to be heard, you have to talk either
truth or shit. The arbiter of truth is generally but not in all cases, science.
Those who do not think so do not want objective measures, insofar as the
scientific method is designed to lead to objectivity. So for all things that
can be observed and interacted with directly, science rules. But for those
things that elude, perhaps spiritual, or perhaps on time and space size-scales
that we have not yet figured how to interact with yet. Some things are
un-observable merely due to limitations of our senses and instruments.

Okay, so we're starting with the premise that it's still okay to blog. You can
still produce a few new URLs per day if what you have to pontificate about
warrants it. Even if it's just processing your thoughts in such a way that you
can demonstrate that you can produce content as you go is fine. It's especially
fine if that's shaping up to be your "schtick" or the thing that you're known
for. The rules are in flux, so let's choose the rules you wish to abide by best
and most through habit and love, and get those aligned to the current realities
from Google the best we can. Yeah, that's it. We're adjusting the observable.

My field of "Search Engine Optimization", which I clearly remember the rise of
circa 1996 through 99 when I was a participant and moderator at JimWorld's
VirtualPromote family of sites, namely searchengineforums.com. AltaVista ruled
and kept top-billing at SEF as we called it long after Google was the obvious
new king. In those days we debated whether we were really optimizing search
engines or not. In the end, the term had picked up so much momentum that it was
unstoppable, no matter the arguments or discussions. SEO it was, and I did my
first XSL-transform slice & dice system, witnessing how easy search was to
influence if you had the technical abilities to line up crosshairs just so.

Today, we are still SEOs. The rules are in flux. For many years, long-tail
publishing was a sure way in at the fringes. Gains were small but reliable.
Today, all those one-off URLs filter out. They are shifting to becoming more of
a liability to maintain than an asset. If old knowledge isn't "pinned-up"
somehow, it fades away. It is part of the nature of information to have to
reassert itself somehow in order to continue to exist. It has to either seize
our minds, our production tools, or the algorithms of our search engines. The
job of the SEO today is to pin-up the best while letting old, expiring assets
fade away.

Ouch.

Every single project that I do has some interesting component to it. I can see
how tagging blog posts as I go could really fill-out my site.

Let's make my site a little prettier.

![Blue Balloons](/assets/images/blue-balloons.jpg)


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/managing-static-vs-dynamic-leads-to-practical-fusion-a-better-you/">Managing Static Vs. Dynamic Leads to Practical Fusion & a Better You</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/e-e-a-t-the-new-google-quality-guidelines/">E-E-A-T The New Google Quality Guidelines</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/python/'>Python</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li></ul>