---
date: 2022-09-18
title: The Two Maxwell's of Light / You Can't Take It With You
headline: "Exploring the Mysteries of Science: Wisdom Over Material Possessions"
description: Reflecting on the power of wisdom over material possessions, I explore the mysteries of science such as non-locality and the particle/wave duality of light particles first established by James Clerk Maxwell and Michael Faraday in the 1800s. Max Planck's discovery of the planck-unit further perplexed us, and I express my hope to better explain this to my child in the future.
keywords: Light, Particle/Wave, Duality, James Clerk Maxwell, Michael Faraday, Max Planck, Planck-Unit, Non-Locality, Wisdom, Material Possessions, Subjective Experience, Magic, Science, Equations
categories: science, wisdom, magic
permalink: /blog/the-two-maxwell-s-of-light-you-can-t-take-it-with-you/
layout: post
---


You can't take it with you. And leaving it all to your children interferes with
their journey. You and they are different beings and you should focus on your
journey and help them while you're here and your experiences overlap. When
you're gone what you should have left them is your learned wisdom. Maybe they
can take that with themâ€”because it's information, both internal and possibly
eternal. No bank account or real estate holding can compare.

When you ask yourself "what's important?" in the most reductionist way
possible, it seems to me you're asking what's more important, the arrangement
of the atoms or the atoms themselves? Is it matter that really matters, like
material possessions and the particular running instances of life-infused
machines and creatures, or all the information that it would take to
re-instantiate exactly such machines and creatures?

The bits representing wealth in your bank account are nonsense, as is the gold
hidden in your mattress. When you die, none of that's going with you. Matter
most definitely stays behind, bets reallocated, recycled and re-experienced
by... by... well, that's the other thing. I'm not going all the way to souls
with this, but certainly the arrangement of the atoms... that particular
sequencing that allowed an interconnectedness and distinct subjective
experience in this material world... that is something. Call this animate
information what you will, but ***THAT*** is what's important.  important.

If you can take it with you, this is where the magic happens. Such information
that's somehow behind the material existence may exist elsewhere. These things
elude science... for now. But just like Tony Stark talking to Thor, I'm pretty
confident that such mysteries will be understood and moved from the realm of
magic into that of science some day. Big Dogs will throw the alphabet soup of
particle names in the Standard Model at you to try to convince you everything
is known. Throw back... hmm, what is it? What still eludes science?

I'd start with non-locality of course. Spooky action at a distance.
Entanglement and cohesion. Faster-than-light travel of information. Yeah,
that's a pretty good start. Even Einstein was driven mad over this. Big Dogs
trying to brush off the unknown have to answer the non-locality question first.
Are separate particles at a distance truly connected in some physical sense? If
so how? If not, then how do they effect each other? This is our second big clue
that existence isn't what it seems.

Our first big clue was two-slits, or the double-slit experiment performed by
Thomas Young in 1802 that established the particle/wave duality of light
particles. Over time it was established with other particles getting
progressively bigger, through electrons, atoms, large molecules (specifically
soccer ball like carbon 60 buckyballs) to the point where it's pretty clear
that all matter has particle/wave duality and we're all made from rippling
fields and not distinct particles at all. There is perhaps less to explain here
than with non-locality, but still every high falutin word off of the Standard
Model you can quote is just snobbish erudition in the face of the fact we're
all just rippling fields in a way that occasionally looks like distinct
particles, but truly is still just still not understood.

There's two Maxes of light. The first was physicist James Clerk Maxwell who
worked with the visionary experimentalist and distinctly non-physicist Michael
Faraday in the 1800s to put together field-theory by which we understand
electromagnetism and light with equations as relevant right up to this day as
they were back then. Besides Sir Isaac Newton (from the 1600 and 1700
hundreds), this was the biggest thing going in science. Now the science of
thermodynamics didn't start until maybe 100 years after Maxwell, but he was
quoted as saying: "The idea of dissipation of energy depends on the extent of
our knowledge" which gets at another things still eluding science: where does
the information go when things burn? Is it totally gone? Some might insist we
know, but we don't. Unlike gravity which will imminently be incorporated into
the Standard Model as the evidence for Quantum Loop Gravity or something like
it falls into place, Information Theory still eludes. It's very related to the
second rule of thermodynamics which states Natural processes tend to go only
one way, toward less usable energy and more disorder. Once things are done,
they can't be undone. Information goes away in a non-reversible way. Explain
that, Big Dog.

Oh yeah, the second Max of Light. Max Planck came quite a bit later (the 1800s
and 1900s) and with him you basically combine the Michael Faraday
experimentalist and the James Clerk Maxwell physicist and mathematician into
one person. Like how Michael Faraday "saw" the invisible lines of magnetic
force that compelled him to investigate (and eventually team up with Maxwell to
do the math), Plank "saw" that something mysterious must be at play to explain
the strange "quantized way" very dark objects (you might call them black
bodies) cooled down once heated up. Imagine metal heated white-hot, then it
cools down to a glowing orange and finally back to its normal color. It's still
radiating heat, however. And so on down to say absolute-zero if the metal were
perfectly black and in an environment with no ambient energy. In its own way
this was as mysterious and confounding as two-slits and magnetic fields. But
unlike Faraday, Planck did his own math... over and over, combining it with the
work of others to avoid the Infrared and Ultraviolet Catastrophes (ever wonder
why the visual light spectrum evolved the way it did?).

In the end, Max Planck discovered (although he didn't know it) that the smooth
wavy continuum of Max-Light #1 (James Clerk Maxwell) was actually divvied up
into chunky little bits. Ultimately, he thought it was a trick of numbers and
not indicative of the nature of the real world, but what he discovered was that
when a quantum field ripples into our space/time, at some scale (we call it 1
planck-unit), it's either all-in or all-out. It's where the math for an
infinitesimally small black hole stops working and would cease to exist /
collapse in on itself. Uh yeah so anyway the unexplainable thing here is the
quantum nature of our universe. We don't really know what these quantum fields
are, where they come from, or most every other thing about them that exist
outside the very framework within which we and our brains to think about them
exist. They're (or "it" if it ends up being just one) is outside the system.

I could write on forever, but this is just clearing my head of thoughts for the
day, and not a formal article as such. If you found it, good for you. That
there were two ground-breaking Maxwell's of Light always confused me. I got it
straight mostly for myself and perhaps one day for my kid when they stop having
the somewhere-learned and self-imposed "I'm not a math person" an allergic
reaction when I mention such things. I have to frame it better.


<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/created-windows-shortcut-to-start-linux-jupyter-on-lxd/">Created Windows Shortcut To Start Linux Jupyter on LXD</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/running-ubuntu-18-04-and-ubuntu-20-04-simultaneously-under-wsl-2/">Running Ubuntu 18.04 and Ubuntu 20.04 Simultaneously Under WSL 2</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/science/'>Science</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/wisdom/'>Wisdom</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/magic/'>Magic</a></h4></li></ul>