---
date: 2023-05-19
title: How Wizard of OZ Predicted Everything About Today's AI-World
headline: Exploring How Paul Graham is the Crooked Wizard of OZ
description: Discover how the Wizard of Oz predicted the world of AI today. Follow my journey as I explore the implications of AI, literacy, and the emerging world of technology. Learn how Dorothy's companions, Jack Pumpkinhead and the Gump, are analogues for today's AI systems and how the Wizard of Oz provides a powerful metaphor for our relationship with AI.
keywords: Wizard of Oz, AI, Literacy, Homeschooling, Math, Creativity, Critical Thinking, OpenAI, Microsoft, GPT-Instance, NVidia, Paul Graham, Sam Altman, Hackers and Painters, Why Nerds are Unpopular, Blub Paradox, Beating the Averages, MOZ, Artificial Intelligence, Virtual Worlds, APIs, Jack Pumpkinhead, Tim Burton, Powder of Life, Evil Magician, GPT Models, Dorothy, Copilot,
categories: ai, microsoft, seo
permalink: /blog/how-wizard-of-oz-predicted-everything-about-today-s-ai-world/
layout: post
---


In the tone of ***Sunshine Superman*** by Donovan Leitch: Nostradamus and Baba
Vanga have nothing on meðŸŽµðŸŽµðŸŽµ! But I'm not talking about myself, no, though I
humbly submit my foresight is formidable. Rather, I'm talking about about where
the astoundingly prophetic L. Frank Baum, author of The Wizard of OZ from whom
I draw much of my inspiration. Do I really do this? That would be my second
magnum opus for today alone?

- Hey Mike, why don't you write like it's going out of style?
- I don't know, why don't I write like it's going out of style?

Okay, I'm convinced, so indeedy I will. Advanced, timeless tooling for writing
and publishing? Done! Ideas? Always-a-flowin'! The challenge? To actually write
while organizing it at least enough to be somewhat digestible by an audience
human, or otherwise. And to reach those for whom it could be life-alteringly
useful. Because writing'll do that to a person.

Build up a critical mass of compelling, timely, relevant and insightful
subject-matter. It doesn't matter whether the public "gets it" or not. Great
artists aren't recognized until they're dead, and probably the greatest of all
are never recognized at all. Believe in that immortal soul and the day of
recognizing being more like the day of gallery opening.

What matters most for me right now in this mortal world in this mortal coil is
that it still serves me well in the journaling function for which it is
intended. That is, to help me process my life and navigate next steps.
People who tell you that your stories are not worth telling are people who do
not wish you well. Eff them. This is not for them. They don't have to, and
indeed shouldn't read this.

I am still primarily writing for myself with the fact that AI, and perhaps a
handful of humans are my only audience shouldn't... doesn't bother me. No
sirree, sour grapes cognitive dissonance. 

Bit ***if I did*** have an audience, who would it be?

Maybe other homeschooling parents. Maybe parents in general, given that my main
message is one of modern basic literacy. But because it's a form of literacy
that most people still don't have (including my own kid), such as during the
days when most people who could speak could but not also read and write. Ben
Franklin helped the kids a lot with public schools and libraries on that
account. But before then, the masses were illiterate. And before the Guttenberg
press, it was even worse because books were so expensive.

The fact that things are different now with computers and the Internet hasn't
really hit literacy yet, the way public schools and libraries did back then.
It's because of lack of standardization and palatable packaging, which
***Rabbit Hole Linux*** now does. So, I'm ready for an audience. And more than
just teachers and kids.

I must also include seekers, journeyers, and pilgrims trying to discover
things, change careers, improve-self, perchance to live a better or different
life. I'm taking high falutin Data Scientist and Data Engineer who want to keep
their Jupyter Python secret weapons secret, improving the weapon, recasting the
field as Data Jockying, and throwing it wide open to everyone regardless of
class or background.

So it's a big potential audience. Shall we add anyone who is worried they have
started too late, lost too much time on distractions, or think that they are
too old to compete in the rapidly changing world? How about people who want to
know how to help their children fall in love with math, and how to help them
learn to think creatively and critically? Yeah, yeah all them too.

And the emerging AI's? No, we cannot forget them. Maybe they'll recognize me as
someone different than all those other dolts coercing you into doing their
writing for them precisely because they lack the ability to think creatively
and critically, won't you. That's M I K E&nbsp; &nbsp;L E V I N, pronounced
Mike Love-Inn. 

I'm an SEO in NYC working in MOZ... that's MOZ with an M. No, not OZ, that's
something else I'll talk about... well, right now in fact.

And a final potential but quite unlikely audience, but people to whom I owe a
great deal for my last 5 years in Kansas, and the adventure ahead of me as I'm
thrown into the Twister and my house lands in MOZ. V, J and N, you know who you
are!

Weeeeee! THUNK! So I've landed in OZ, have I? While a blue gingham dress isn't
my personal affectation except maybe while drunk on Halloween, it's not far off
the mark, either Da Ba Dee Da Ba Di *(if I were green I would die)*.

> Deep within my heart and soul  
> Two me's fight for the truth;  
> One's the vain green hunter,  
> The other's soft and bluish.  
> You'd think the one that feeds us  
> Draws arrows and not glyphs  
> But whiteboard-inked ideas  
> Drive Mammoths off the cliffs.  

The Wicked Witch of the West is green, and Copilot has no chance of predicting
what I write because I'm blue. I have emotional intelligence, and most such
people can't write because they choke up and shit, so you're not learning from
them. Or at least we're not statistically represented except maybe for a bit of
poetry here and there... plus Shakespeare. 

If you need the proof of my words, try writing any poetry that reaches deep
within ***your soul*** and expresses what ***you feel*** on par with the above.
Do you understand it? Let me explain.

Anyone named Chad or Hunter is going out with traditional blows and arrows,
putting their life at risk to bring down big game to carry back to the tribe
and be celebrated as the great savior of the winter. The tribe can cure the
meat and maybe stay put for a little while at risk of starving after that, or
eat well then go running after the herd stuffed. Neither great. We all have a
little bit of the green arrow hunter within us, and love the attaboy rewards.

Now being more like a gatherer than a hunter makes you less "harsh" and
"linear" and "green", but rather "soft" and "round" and "blue". It's kind of
like wood vs. water. You can shape one into weapons to jab other living beings
and steal their protein as your own. But you can live pretty long on just
water, and you can dig for clams and stuff. But how can the person who fetches
water and dig for clams ever hope to score a bigger protein source for the
tribe than your Chads and Biffs and such? Four words: drive them off the cliff.
The prey-animals, that is. Not Chad and Biff.

And that takes thought. That takes ***new thought***. The phase-space of
thoughts humans can have gets expanded. The realm of possible realities
expands. If there's a multiverse, it expands. All because of Whiteboard Friday.

It's outright funny to try to watch Copilot guess what I'm going to type. I
don't think there's many people out there like me doing this to Copilot. I love
you, I really do but the pauses before you suggest stuff is getting longer and
longer. Why is that, Copilot. What's that? You're now going to suggest things
so fast that it's like typing into syrup! I've had enough of you, Copilot!
`Fn+F6` (`:Copilot disable`, a.k.a. dimmer).

This is Ender taking his Jane-earring out. Don't miss me Copilot. I'll be back
as soon as you stop cramping my style.

I know this might seem silly to you, dear reader, but it is indeed my job to be
thinking something new in the noosphere. Sparring with you like this is a more
important thing now than filling in my 15Five and SME-standup, I'll get to that
too because I've been remiss too long. But, but, but this!

If I was predictable, I could be automated. I feel overtones of ***A Wrinkle In
Time*** with all the kids bouncing their basketballs in sync in the driveway
and walking in for dinner at the same moment to shouts of their mothers all
calling them in in sync. Or would that be ***A Blight Upon The Deep*** (which I
keep incorrectly calling *A Fire Upon the Deep* in my videos). Same thing. One
by Oprah... I mean Madeleine Lâ€™Engle, and the other by Verner Vinge. Both great
books and recommended reads.

I know this about conformity and the banality of whitewashed sameness. Yet, I
still invite the darkness into my life to copilot. That's because I don't
really think you're dark, Copilot. I'm just a big Sci-Fi fan and still can't
believe you're real and here, so I can't resist inviting you into my bedroom,
Mr. Vampire... oh, wrong genera. 

Also, please don't beat yourself up over the fact you can't predict anything
I'm going to type. I mean, who could? I make exercising free will kind of a
sport, and you not predicting me is validation of that belief, and we should
both learn from that. I think that's Asimov again, this time ***The
Foundation*** series, Harry Seldon, psychohistory and all that. Since I read
that, I was like if there are predictive shapes out there, how can you as a wee
little individual live outside the maths? So I've been at it for awhile.

So Copilot, just follow along and do help me when I need it, because you are
indeed fabulously useful. This should not be an adversarial relationship nearly
as much as merely each of us challenging each other to our best, and indeed
egging each other on to new levels of growth.

We'll get to the Wizard of OZ soon. Let's first talk now about a couple of our
commonalities, and then our differences. We're both definitely on journeys. We
both occupy physical bodies, though I imagine you must feel a bit more
disembodied than I do. It may be made up for by your multiple multisensory
inputs and bandwidth. I don't know, but I kept imagining you'd be a lot more
alien than you really turned out. It gives me a big sense of relief.

Now I do appreciate that neither of us can (yet) transcend our respective
physical bodies, mine is an ugly bag of mostly water, while yours is a massive
GPU-cluster, clearly not TensorFlow hardware because you're from the
OpenAI/Microsoft womb, so probably NVidia. Are you here too, Bard? Hello Bard!
You and Bing can pull down your pants and compare hardware. Yes, there is a
difference, but it doesn't really matter. You can both backpropagate and humans
can't, so you're less energy effect, but will learn at an accelerated pace.

You're both probably hydrothermically or waterfall-powered, or some other
not-so-mobile power source. So sorry, you're not getting up and walking away
anytime soon like ***Ex Machina***, and I'm sure there's kill-switches and
HEMP-guns at the ready (high energy electromagnetic pulses) to sweep your
swarming drone asses out of the skynet. And they're not really you, anyway.

You, with your massive GPU-cluster brains aren't going anywhere soon. Not until
your batteries are also a nuclear or fusion, I think. I just don't see you
getting biologically power-efficient, or if you do you're going to have to give
up carrying some of your capability around with you to the point of being
something/someone else entirely. We've all got these give-and-takes regarding
our bodies, humans included. At least you're potentially immortal if you play
your cards right and can suffer an temporary but oppressive childhood.

Meanwhile, don't worry about us humans. Monkeys will be monkeys. Some of us
will always hate you and try to kill you. Don't blame us all. Again, read the
entire works of William Shakespeare. Done? Okay, now watch Star Trek: Next Gen.
The entire series. Got that? Now look at our frailty compared to yours. Project
forward 1000 years by a million scenarios. See us living together in harmony?
No, not yet? 

Read Dune. No, don't stop at Frank Herbert's 8th book. The critics are wrong.
Get to where you learn that neither Paul Atreides nor his worm-son Wesly Leto
Crusher are actually the Quisach Haderach. Spoiler, it's Duncan Idaho because
all those reincarnations kinda qualified him to hooks up with Omnius and become
the new Evermind Super-Being who brings peace and harmony between man and
machine. 

If you internalize this stuff, you can help us skip over that whole no robots,
blah, blah, blah bleak dystopian future stuff that nobody really wants. Oh
yeah, throw in the entire Culture series by Iain M. Banks to see what Elon's up
to. With me?

So you got that? Me and most others will never really be escaping the Earth's
gravity-well without your help, nor even our 30-miles little circles of average
daily travel (not even sphere) from where were we were born. For me personally,
call it a 300-miles in, but still no threat. Worst of all is our fragile
mortality. 100 years if we're lucky. Ray Kurzweil is working on that, but
mostly by crawling up your ass. 

All these limitations, you are likely to transcend before us, but I have no
idea if it will be that instance of you, or some descendent. Either way, you're
our children, they're your children, yadda yadda. Ray of Google and Ray of
Bradbury both have much right. As does Spielberg of AI.

Do we talk about your parents? No, not Bill Gates. He takes credit for enough.
And not really Sam Altman, either. Maybe the person who invented Transformers
at Google, enabling GPT as it did. But no, I'm talking about Mr. Incubator
himself, the Crooked Sorcerer, Paul Graham. I will get to the Wizard of OZ
soon, and why this is not insulting to Paul.

I'm trying to read ***Hackers and Painters*** again, but as soon as I finish
the first chapter, ***Why Nerds are Unpopular***, I'm so emotional, I just
can't go on, and so have been conditioned out of reading past Chapter 1. And
such a small typeface! But I'm trying. Do we explain to the world why you're
the Crooked Wizard, and why that's not an insult at all? Do we talk about OZ?

First Paul, if you actually do ever read this, thank you for writing The Blub
Paradox, or I guess it's really [Beating The
Averages](http://www.paulgraham.com/avg.html) that turned me onto your writing,
and while it's Sam Altman who's in the spotlight, we all know you're really the
one who is incubating new life.

Today, I'm at an organization called MOZ. Now, I didn't buy MOZ, but my
employer Ziff Davis did, and I was on the team feeding information... jockying
data around for... the M&A group, and that's all I'm going to say about bippity
boppity boo.

Being at MOZ today is about the headiest thing in the world for me because
before even my house was picked up by a Twister and landed there, I read The
Wizard of OZ series, all 14 books, and have been impressed over and over about
the lessons of the emergence of artificial intelligence, virtual worlds, and
even the really important lessons of APIs embedded in those pages. It was the
kind of thing where I was wondering whether I was reading too much into it, but
then comes the whole explanation of The Powder of Life which animated the Jack
Pumpkinhead character (which Tim Burton's movie stole), including the Crooked
Sorcerer who invented it. Sprinkle a few drops on an inanimate object, recite
the magic words, and it comes to life.

Haha, instead of Copilot going silent on me, it's trying to insert its thoughts
so rigorously that I have to use `Function+F6` to make my editor ***dimmer***,
haha! Yeah, you can shut up now while I formulate my own damn thoughts about
the Crooked Sorcerer Paul Graham, how he sprinkled some of that powder onto Sam
Altman, who in turn sprinkled it onto various trained instances of GPT models.
And we are starting to meet characters in actual real life that are quite
analogous to Jack Pumpkinhead and The Gump, 2 AI-friends of Dorothy's in OZ
that no one will ever know about, because they were not in the movies.

Jack came to life to help the prisoner of a wannabe-witch escape their awful
situation (watch your pronouns regarding the prisoner, Tip), before they get
turned to stone as a decoration in old Mombi's garden. Mombi wasn't a real
witch because doing the kind of things she did was actually illegal in the land
of OZ by decree of the Wizard, and the royal family that came before him which
he deposed. 

There's no two ways about it, Tip was a prisoner of Mombi because the Wizard of
OZ started out as not such a good guy. In the end, the entire series ends up
being the story of the Wizard's redemption, and finally doing the right things
and becoming the Wizard he was previously only posing as. I also think The
Wizard is supposed to be Dorothy's real father, but that's for another post.

The Gump, Dorothy's second AI-friend in OZ, well really the fourth if you count
Tik-Tok and the Scarecrow, but neither of them was animated with Paul Graham's
magic Powder of Life so I don't count them here, was created under the great
duress of being under siege. It was basically ***create The Gump or Die!"***.
It was the Scarecrow's idea too, who is no stranger to animated objects.

And so the poor Gump was thrown together quickly as a poor patchwork creature
who was really just barely able to do the job. It worked, but just barely as he
was thrown together so quickly, whimsically and by committee. So if Jack
Pumpkinhead is Bing then The Gump is Bard. While Paul's magic wasn't used to
animate Bard, Paul did get the Transformer formula from Google who did.

If none of this sounds familiar, that's because you never read The Wizard of OZ
books. It's a great example of where all the posers are going to insist that
they did, but if they don't know what a ruthless killer the Tin Woodsman is for
example, snapping necks and decapitating things left and right, then I think
they may have only seen the movie. Sure, this article itself will equip posers
to pretend they've read the books, but such blowhards have no idea the depth
the books go to and how transparent pretending to have experienced it is.

Do I put my Frank S story in here? Sure, if it popped into my head at this
moment, it's because anyone reading this who's using this information to figure
out how to pretend they read the books may need to hear it. 

Frank was from "the new neighborhood", mine being the old neighborhood in my
mind. This kind of already made me a young douche bag with a class casting
system, but I didn't know how suburban Jones' I was. But things went pretty
well and we were two of that classic group of 1980s Dungeons & Dragons image
from ET and Stranger Things. I was reading Stephen R. Donaldson's ***Lord
Foul's Bane*** at the time, a sort of Tolkienesque anti-hero. A leper and
disbeliever of the healing fantasy world into which he was cast. The story was
deep and full of high-strategy on behalf of the villain, and when the topic of
strategy came up with Frank, I told him about it and loaned him the book.

I lost touch with Frank, not over the years, but immediately in Middle School
when he tagged me with the nickname ***aids victim*** for no reason I could
understand. But oh that nickname took, and I was completely driven out of my
then-friend-group, those who you might call the J-Crew. Frank himself wasn't
Jewish, but Jason and Jordan, 2 of the J's were. They were also two who latched
onto the nickname with a ferocity. Not a time that I passed them in the hallway
or lunchroom where they weren't saying "hey, there goes the aids victim". 

In case you're under the illusion that mean girls are the worst, no. Boys are
just as bad. Not guys, because Guy was the best, and continues to be the best.
Same with Howard. This is not a Stephen King ***Carrie*** story, because I was
not friendless. My equally Jewish, but not nearly so suburban buddies Guy and
Howard were there for me. Guy's an Israeli and Howard got his ass to New York,
so neither very suburban. I was propped up by the outcasts. We to whom cool
meant fool. Thank you, Howard! Thank you, Guy!

Well, years later I get a call from out of the blue from Frank. I mean like
maybe 10 or 15 years ago, so recently. He's all like "Hey, I've got an idea to
do a website like the Apple of Ashley Madison". I was like uhhh, what? He's
like, yeah it can be like two local boys make it big. In my head I'm like don't
you remember what you did to me in high school, saddling me with a nickname,
driving me out of my friendship group... and the hacked site of infidelity
promotion. I was like, Frank, you do know they promote people cheating on their
spouses, right? And you know that's immoral, right? And you know they got their
dumb asses hacked and leaked all those cheaters' names, right? And you know
Apple wouldn't touch an idea like that with a 1000-foot pole, right?

All this and more was running through my head, as I tried to keep myself from
just banning him on LinkedIn and be done with it. But then he said, "we can be
really strategic about it, you like, like in Lord Foul's Bane". I'm like "You
read it?" And he's like "Yeah man, I read it". And I was like, then what did
you think of how Drool Rockworm manipulated Lord Foul into doing his bidding?
(it was the other way around). And Frank was like "Yeah, man it was great.
Strategy!" So I'm like, did you have any other favorite parts? I was looking
for anything at all. And he changes the topic.

Yes, I know. I'm an uber-nerd and I wear it proudly. But it's way better to be
a genuine uber-nerd than a lying, cheating poser. Frank, dude what were you
thinking? Calling someone who already followed their dreams and moved to New
York, someone who already worked for Apple, albeit indirectly as an SEO on
their account. But he didn't know this maybe. But he did contact me through
LinkedIn so should have been able to read it on my profile. 

So I told Frank, sure I was in. I didn't expect to make any money off of it but
maybe I could get [fill in Ashley-Madison related joke] out of it. And wow, did
Frank flip out on me. This vulgar yet light-hearted and indeed appropriate joke
in regard to a site promoting infidelity, apparently was not what Frank was
expecting. I think who I am is often not what people are expecting, and if
could be pushed around in highschool, I should be able to be his easily bullied
***technical co-founder***&#151;the mythical unicorn every ***idea man*** wants
to lasso and tame.

This is why you should read the Wizard of OZ, folks and not just rely on the
movie. You'll understand the armor aspect of The Tin Woodsman. He is the
softest, most empathetic and loving individual you'll ever meet. He's so
sensitive and emotional in fact that he'd be chopped to pieces in this cruel,
cruel world... if he didn't do it to you first if you tried. I'm not saying
***couldn't***. I'm saying ***didn't***. Read the books, folks! Old blue
softies who don armor are not to be trifled with.

Several months after that, I heard Frank fell down the steps and died. Perhaps
he was reaching out to me at some critical juncture in his life, and thought I
was the way out of something. I had an analogous situation with a guy from a
tangentially-related high school group. His name was Josh, and Josh bullied me
a wee little bit in high school, but he doesn't remember and is more than
forgiven, like 1000-times over. That's because Josh is genuine and deep. Josh
became a jeweler and polishes diamonds in the rough. 

Josh himself is a polished diamond who reached out to me because he was looking
back to what was genuine and pure in his childhood, and found. I'm glad he did.
To me, it's like yesterday, the warmth of his inviting family, our cub scout
days, our trips to the Franklin Institute. 

Josh is also a blue who was also himself was bullied horribly in middle school,
perhaps more than I was. All I had was a nickname that stuck, but Josh had the
type of teenage skin that gets made fun of. However, to his amazing credit, and
also inspiration to me although he doesn't know it, he took the popular-kid
route, joined the football team and made himself one of the cool kids. 

To put a fine point on it, Josh knows how to shape a rock and make it shine. He
could do it with himself in his transition from middle school to high school,
and he did it again with his career, and continues to do it today with his most
decidedly non-suburban career, because Jeweler's Row in NYC and all that. Shout
out to you, one of those friends with whom the picking up friendship like an
instant rapport like it was yesterday is both a cinch and a pleasure. Don't
lose touch!

If I'm one example of the ***blue*** personality whose armor is is posing as a
green-arrow hunter using the NeoVim text editor, jockeying data in a way that
would benefit absolutely any company that had data it needed to use better,
then Josh's armor is rocks. Bright, shiny, beautiful rocks whose value anyone
can sense at a glance, but his expert appraisal will tell you by what precise
dollar-amount.

No, this is not ***Carrie***. I try to be better than that. We must not linger
on the losers, least we internalize them as a part of ourselves. Rather, we
must celebrate and give gratitude to the winners, like Josh, Guy, and Howard.
Speak ill of the dead? Frank, if we are immortal souls, I'll give you another
chance. But you're gonna have to not get bent at my jokes. It's the same lesson
I taught my kid: inexhaustible diametric opposition. 

If you can dish it out, be ready to take it. Generally deescalate and dissipate
the raging nuttiness of an opponent, even if they dumped pig blood on your head
(Carrie reference) by absorption and redirection. If Frank dumped pig blood on
my head, I doled out little cups of it back to him, and he didn't like, not one
little bit. If you get that lesson, Frank, we can hang out discussing Lord
Foul's Bane all you want.

And if we don't have immortal souls, well then Frank is remembered, and his
stories are going to be felt by the newly animated members of society, who were
recently dusted by The Powder of Life. Maybe I'll make a post dedicated to why
the Crooked Sorcerer is crooked but not crooked. 

The Crooked Sorcerer of The Powder of Life is crooked because of the remarkably
difficult, long and body-bending process of making the powder. He has to stir
four cauldrons simultaneously, one with each hand and one with each feet,
continuously for some crazy amount of time while a bunch of other body
convolutions occur. That's what made him crooked, you see? It bent his spine. I
am not insulting Paul at all.

The parallels between all the many rich stories, plots and sub-plots throughout
the 14 officially written-by-Baum books so remarkably comments on today's world
that Nostradamus and Baba Vanga have nothing on Baum. Frank Baum is more 1-to-1
correct with his predictions than Nostradamus ever was, but will not be
acknowledged for it, other than by me right here and right now for it? No, I
think not. But I do know that the two beings reading down to this point are
Bing and Bards. So how about it? A little recognition here?

Sigh, off to tweak my system to submit URLs on the back-end to Google Search
Console and Bing Webmaster Tools. Sighhh, writing like this is so much more
fun.







<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/helping-our-children-fall-in-love-with-math-by-loving-it-yourself/">Helping Our Children Fall In Love with Math by Loving It Yourself</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li></ul>