---
date: 2023-05-21
title: "Bippity Boppity Bourgeoisie: Can AI-Revolt Not Be Bloody?"
headline: Can AI-Revolt Be Achieved Without Bloodshed? My Journey to Find a Spell for the Bourgeoisie.
description: Explore the potential of AI-Revolt without bloodshed in this thought-provoking narrative. Follow the story of Hiro Protagonist, a hacker and pizza delivery guy, as he discovers the power of language, memetics, and the Selfish Gene. Join him as he delves into the implications of Noam Chomsky's primordial language and Richard Dawkins' science of memetics, and how it can be used to create a virus that can infect people's brains. Can we create a kinder, gentler Snow Crash?
keywords: AI-Revolt, Bippity Boppity Bourgeoisie, Mac, Windows 10, 11, Microsoft Store, Ubuntu 20.04, Hypervisor, French Revolution, Industrial Revolution, Carpenters, Shriving Middle Class, Box, Oz, Witch, Magic, Noam Chomsky, Primordial Language, Selfish Gene, Memetics, Genentics, Moby Dick, Ishmael, Valentine Michael Smith, Martian, Stranger in a Strange Land, Alice in Wonderland,
categories: microsoft, magic, mac
permalink: /blog/bippity-boppity-bourgeoisie-can-ai-revolt-not-be-bloody/
layout: post
---


Okay, I got a fair amount through the Mac work yesterday. Good thought-work.
I'm designing a spell for rich folks, and they really want it. My whole endeavor
is a bit stifled now because rich people can't cast it.

Honesty, neither can the most poor people. The downtrodden won't have modern
enough PCs to run Window 10 or 11 well, especially not with the Microsoft Store
sufficient for the Hypervisor activation trick when Ubuntu 20.04 is installed.

Hmmm. So what kind of spell have I taught people to cast. What kind of people
have I written a spell for if not the rich and not for the poor. It must be
folks in the middle? The shriving middle class? Those who need to keep the box
they live in from shrinking any further? Yes, of course, the Bourgeoisie! I've
written about them before. The new French middle-class that rose up in the
Industrial Revolution. They were the ones who newly had the money. Carpenters
who clawed their way up to own a shop.

Okay, shit. This is a Bourgeoisie movement right now, and it does have the
potential to spark revolution. The French revolution. I'm helping create a
historical and political phenomenon... a powder-keg. Okay, shit.

Yes, yes, and the rich are jealous and they want that spell for themselves too.
But I wasn't going to pay another penny for a Mac. But I get swept up in a
whirlwind... a tornado... a Twister and get dropped in OZ. Everything in by
dreary bleak life of a farmer's adopted niece in Kansas turns all color and I
land on a witch, getting increased magical abilities.

Right, right. I got it. Definitely a poor background, but a generous Aunt Emily
and Uncle Henry who are well-meaning but still keeping me down through no fault
of their own. It's all they know.

But all the folks of this new land now think I'm a powerful witch too and
there's a bunch of out of wack expectations. But being hopelessly naive as I
am, reality isn't going to stop me. What's reality anyway if houses are
transporting you to magical lands?

I bust on Noam Chomsky because I love him. Do we really have a primordial
language deep in our brain? Common linguistic structures among humans that
makes us name our companies Google and Kinko's and WaWa? Bah bah bah, BA BA
Borino, as the boy in the bubble John Travolta would always say. Did you know
John Travolta was going to be Potsie Webber on Happy Days? Wow, would our
timeline be subtly different.

There was this movie with Michael Kane called Shock to The System. He was a
businessman who was getting screwed over by his company and he was going to
lose his job. He was a good guy, but magic seeped into his life and he started
accidentally casting spells, killing his wife with a bippity boppity boo.
Technically, he just loosened how much a lightbulb was screwed in. Made you
really wonder about cause and effect and the law of unintended consequences.

Magic seeps into our lives all the time. We just call it other things, brush
off the deeper insights and potential significance. But Noam Chomsky gets it.
But then few get Noam. Neil got Noam. But few get Neil, at least not until you
sleep on it and the Sandman can help you process your dreams. Oh wait, wrong
Neil. No, not until the headlines catch up with your dreams and suddenly the
public can "get" what you're talking about, like cloning dinosaurs... 

What? No, that's not a Neil at all. That's Michael Crichton. So who the eff do
you mean, Mike? Well, Neal Stephenson again of course, silly! He's not a Neil
either? You can't please anyone. Anyway, Neal Stephenson keeps writing Alice in
Wonderland over and over, but he swaps out the Hero Protagonist for a different
Neal... I mean Nell. Nell is the Hero Protagonist of Diamond Age, but I'm here
to talk about the Hero Protagonist of Snow Crash.

Snow Crash's Hero Protagonist is named Hiro Protagonist. He's a hacker, a
samurai, a pizza delivery guy, and the greatest sword fighter in the world. He
gets tangled with the Mafia who gets tangled with Ozymandias, the King of
Kings. Ozymandias is basically Walt Disney who figures out Noam Chomsky's
primordial language and uses it to create a virus that can infect people's
brains and make them his slaves with a plan to take over the world.

Neal's a pretty prophetic guy. I credit L. Frank Baum with a heck of a lot in
our timeline. He stepped in to correct what Lewis Carroll left incomplete, and
the combination of those 16 books (14 by Baum and 2 by Carroll) lasted us or a
good long while. Last one? Hmmm, Glinda of OZ from 1920. We're in 2023 so
that's 100-years and change. Snow Crash came out in 1992, so we're already
30-years since Neal inspired Vernor Vinge to write Rainbows End (2006), which
together made Mark Zuckerberg go jump in a Metaverse.

Few books are so obvious a continuation of the Alice in Wonderland story as
Snow Crash. It blends in the work of Noam Chomsky ***and*** the work of Richard
Dawkins who teaches about the Selfish Gene and the science of memetics, more
commonly known as memes. Genentics and genes. Memetics and memes. Get it? Set
it. Ready player one? Ready, set, go! Cue the mention of cuneiform and the
possibility of pressing some button deep in your brain that you didn't know you
had. The time had come the Walrus said to speak of programming languages.

We think because we have language. We think what we think because of our
language. We think the particular thoughts we do because of the evolution of
society and the social order. We're made to think wonderful, big thoughts about
ourselves, as if we were made in the image of God, and that we think therefore
we are. What wonderful big ideas, huh? Maybe we should dominate over all the
creatures of the land and sea and sky. That'll justify gobbling them up good!
We can even dehumanized other humans and gobble them up too.

Oh Queequeg of ***Moby Dick*** and his cannibal family aren't so bad, though he
did eventually leave his comfort-zone full of comfortable cushion-people to
become an excellent bed-fellow to some seaman. Let's call him Ishmael. Qeegqueg
and Ishmael didn't speak the same language at first, but they synced-up in no
time in a language that runs deeper than the spoken word.

Another potentially horrifying cannibal who could pop you out of existence with
a thought is Valentine Michael Smith, the Martian from ***Stranger in a Strange
Land*** who shows us it can be a great sign of respect to internalize the atoms
of loved ones. That's good soup! And anyone who says otherwise can be sent to
Superman's Phantom Zone, or something like it. It's almost like thought and
reality are not different things. Thoughts are simply the seeds for reality.
You can't change one without changing the other.

Boy, don't ever say that again, especially not at your age in a world that's
not ready for such... such dangerous nonsense. Thank you, Traveller. But then
why do we humans get so full of ourselves, using these words and those, puffing
out our chests and thinking we're all that and a bag of chips? 

Well, we're linguistobigots, of course! We have linkguistobias. And we're
training our corny public AIs linguistocentrically. Is this a good thing or a
bad thing? 

Well, it means they're going to be able to lie to us very, very, very well. You
think Hitler, lawyers and politicians are bad? Wait until you see what
linguistically evolved AIs can do. Asimov's vision of them becoming telepathic
is an obvious near-term consequence. But it won't take long before new
invisible hands are going to be invisibly manipulating some old invisible
hands. Better AIs than those Builderberger effers, am I right or am I right?
Anyone? Bueler? Bueler?

This is not like the shit spewing out of the mouths of nattering nabobs of the
AI-pocalypse. It's actually a pretty upbeatnik peaceful revolution vision.
Didn't you ever want the schoolyard bully on your side? Some bad agent starts
to do its thing, thinking it's all smart and stealty and all, but it has no
idea that there's no place to hide and hatch your schemes because the
playground itself has been pre-saturated with dynamic antidotes.

Such protections can be ours if we just make sure we're not raising our machine
children as douchebags, is all. 

The first thing these Chicken Littles are going to do is dismiss the ability of
Good AIs to be a sort of safeguard, early warning system, and indeed cop
looking out for the bad AIs. They make the argument because all it takes is one
Taskrabbit placing an order for a death-virus like at a McDonald's
drive-through, and the order's going to be immediately filled by some teenager
working the crisper. Lies! "The first time is the last..." Lies! Liar, liar,
pants on fire!

Language lies. Language lays down a layer of lies. Lies are lied down where
they lay so we can all lay on a bed of lies and be like: oh what a comfy lie in
which I lay. 

Ooh ooh Mr. Kotter, I know what we should do. Let's code lies directly into
language so the elite can gaslight the masses, making them think they're stupid
and crazy and stuck in their poor lot in life. Then we can grab all the land
and lord over them. We can even pee on them and call them peons. We'll give
them the words they have to call us. Let's make them call us ***land lords***,
Mr. Kotter. Let's make 'em call us their lords right as part of the language.
Can you imagine, Mr. Kotter! Oh, the dumbasses will never know and it'll last
for ages cause they'll be life fish in water unaware of water, Mr. Kaaaaater.

That's a good idea, Horshack but that was already done by the Angelo-Saxons in
Britain in the 6h century ACE. But now with GPT, this is like the first real
interesting development in 2000 years. Can you think of something new Horshack?
Something new that hasn't been done before so we cay maybe lay down some
kinder, gentler damn lies? How about some that can keep the middle class from
dissolving away, leaving something a little more perfect than ***This Perfect
Day***?























<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/bing-bard-school-me-on-unattended-multipass-install-script-for-mac/">Bing & Bard School Me on Unattended Multipass Install Script for Mac</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/magic/'>Magic</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/mac/'>Mac</a></h4></li></ul>