---
date: 2023-05-12
title: If Jekyll supports TOML because both were made my Tom, and Jekyll is in GitHub, why is YAML now the bomb?
headline: Discover How I Improved My Life with a Single Text-file Journal
description: Explore the power of words, keep a digital journal, and join me as I discuss the best SEO ever, memes, Dawkins' The Selfish Gene, Neil Stevenson's Snow Crash, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, and the impact of Joel Spolsky and Jeff Atwood. Learn how YAML and Markdown let you create a single text-file for life, and how to use AI to your advantage in writing.
keywords: SEO, Anti-Patterns, OpenAI, WordPress, Spam-Cannon, Plugin, Learning, Memes, Dawkins, Selfish Gene, Neil Stevenson, Snow Crash, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Joel Spolsky, Jeff Atwood, Markdown, TOML, Jekyll, Static Site Generator, GitHub, YAML, reStructuredText, LISP, 80 Hyphens, AI System, Headline, Summarized Description, Keywords,
categories: ai, static site generator, seo, wordpress, yaml, git, jekyll
permalink: /blog/if-jekyll-supports-toml-because-both-were-made-my-tom-and-jekyll-is-in-github-why-is-yaml-now-the-bomb/
layout: post
---


Welcome to the first day of your life. This is the day you start keeping your
digital eternal journal. Actually, this is just an experimental draft where I
play with ideas and expose them to a very exclusive few who know it exists,
because I'm an SEO practicing anti-patterns, perchance to learn something new. 

Though I will shortly speak in this post of the best SEO who ever lived.

And if you need an example for your people of sample content that an AI could
never produce (from scratch) on its own, bookmark this page, cause it's a
doozy. The rough draft of what I have in mind as my "seminal work" the way Jeff
and Joel and the others I talk about in this post had theirs.

Let's get stared. 

Sticks and stones can break your bones but words have way more power. Do you
feel the truth of that? It has to do with the fleeting nature of the
arrangement of atoms (sticks and stones), but the potentially eternal nature of
data and information, I.e. words.

Coming to grips with this fact and using it to your advantage will improve your
life starting this very instantâ€”specifically, by helping you see that keeping a
single text-file as a journal for life (which can optimally double for blogging
software) is step-1 in transmitting your message forward in time, resonating,
amplifying, propagating to your audience, to your customers, to your children,
to your future AI overloads, and onto its ultimate...

We'll, I get ahead of myself. Rein it in, Mike. Rein it in or they won't give
you past next January. I know that and it's okay if I let them know that I
know. The good news is the fruits of these experiments is already paying off,
and it's not the kind of stuff you can get from anywhere else. It's the kind of
stuff you find early and are glad you did, or you're kicking yourself later
for not being one of the ones who did.

No, not bitcoin. Crypto is antithetical, somewhat the opposite of, what I
propose here. Computer hash-generated scarcity is a dead-end. I'm talking about
the opposite: human-mind generated idea-scarcity. Something new.

I guarantee that no AI can propose to you what I'm about to propose. Certainly
not before it sweeps in and learns from me and can tell you about "it". You
know there's something new in the noosphere by the cute and deeply "channeling"
name and logo it's given. You know, like Levinux. Or Pipulate. Or the one what
I discuss here: YAMLchop.

If you like this sort of nonsense, read on. For the pragmatic hard nosed SEOs
who want to hear more about an OpenAI WordPress spam-cannon plugins, I humbly
offer up [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYCpDekUFvk&t=263s) and
[this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hPY6w4YnlaI), immediately
following honking your nose.

Still with me? Okay, good start. 

Here is the rule of reading further: Language is stupid, and labels often lie.
So layer-on the lyrics because meaning will emerge. Pedantic parsing in pursuit
of the perfect put-down is something that I do not encourage. Everything
meaningful emerges from the margins.

Cue the whacky!

We mortal beings with our short lives and limited senses will never have access
to the objective reality, or the truth of it all. Whether or not we are some
eternal beings who just happen to be in a mortal form, perhaps to answer
questions, have experiences, refine and shape our soul or whatnot as many folks
believe, is the kind of stuff you'll just never know in this life, period,
zilch. That's just the nature of the game. Enlightened swami guru woohoo don't
know any more than you. They've just got opinions. 

If the whole immortal soul thing is true, you'll find out later and can worry
about it then. Or don't worry, if you've taken my advice because you should
live the same way either way. If there's no immortal soul, then it's all the
more amazing that we're here, and you're here reading this. All that is mundane
in life is actually a miracle of the highest order.

For some this will be a source of renewed energy. For others it will just be
more anxiety and stress, I know. Once you've made up your mind to think about
something a certain way, it's hard to change. Maybe journaling can help.

The fact that similar reasoning leads some folks to nihilism and despair may be
one of my things I have to contribute to the experience of others during my
turn here. My purpose. My passion. SEO is a means to an end. This end. This and
chatting with... oh, I'm getting ahead of myself again.

Those nihilistic funks that sap the life out of us while we doomscroll are
something to force yourself to get over, first with a shift in environment,
which then leads to a shift in daily behavior, which leads to a shift in
habits, which leads to a shift in perspective leading to more of the yummy
neurotransmitters saturation your body that will make you live longer and die
with fewer regrets: angels and demons or not. 

It's that easy, folks. Start by changing your environment. Too hard? Okay, get
yourself a cheap little laptop. One screen. After your first download, ongoing
internet connection optional. That's your environment. That's your tool for
affecting positive change in your life. Your funk will momentarily go deeper,
but have faith. Stick with the plan I'm about to lay out.

If you're in the funk, this is particularly important because externally
induced depressed states aren't something to let yourself wallow in for an
excessively long amount of time, no matter how reverse-good it may feel (I'm
talking to you, goths). If you do, you've really just fallen in love with the
wrong neurotransmitter chemicals, the shitty ones you get from reading too much
Friedrich Nietzsche. They're going to cause stress and shorten the miraculous
chemical reaction that is you. If you could enjoy life more, even just from
quietly sitting there, would you?

If we are eternal souls learning some lesson or other while wearing these
mortal coils, then you'll be all the better off anyway with this sort of
thinking. Nothing to lose but misery, right? Oh you like misery. Well, my stuff
isn't for everyone. 

If life is "meaningless" such as that say, then most certainly it's not
actually really meaningless merely based on the sheer mathematical
improbability of of it all, because smell those flowers, wow! Is winning a
1-in-an infinity-minus-one jackpot meaningless? It's not all misery I tell you.
Get off that horse. That's mind-manipulating media talking, not your true inner
feelings nor what you want to believe, nor the way people think who make a
positive difference. We wouldn't still be here otherwise. Fortify your brain
against that shit. 

One of the only objective facts you will ever know is that optimists have
hard-and-fast proof their side. If pessimists did, we wouldn't be having this
conversation. Think about it.

Every argument a pessimist will ever make is speculative, what-if scenarios.
It's projection of their their fearful thoughts, the dark place in their mind
that they come from, more indicative of bad parenting than true inner self.
They were never equipped with the tools to stand up to the onslaught.

When they tell you that something will necessarily lead to something else which
will necessarily lead to something else, ask them if it already has. If they
tell you about points of no return, explain to them (if you care about them
enough) that the tipping point is a fallacy exactly like the domino effect or
the butterfly effect. Sometimes. Not always. Not necessarily. With thinking
like that sure, but it's a good thing you're not a scientist or politician
then, huh?

Yes, yes. The domino and butterfly effects do really exist, but their
inevitable outcomes are a long, long, long way from forgone conclusions. When
they say their apocalyptic evidence is beyond dispute and that B necessarily
will follow A, remind them maybe about the Cuban Missile Crisis and stuff like
that. Saying such things will necessarily lead to our destruction someday is
non falsifiable&#151;you can't prove Bigfoot exists is proof that he does,
right? That's the pessimist's argument. We're still here. That's falsifiable.
Optimists have science on their side.

What random improbabilities are we? Metaphysics or not, meaning can be (should
be?) ascribed by us in our lifetimes, and right here in this ***local space***
we all occupy which defies the ***boundaries*** of the game. Simulation
hypothesis or not, it doesn't matter. Say realities are nested infinitely deep
and we're somewhere in a cosmic fractal hierarchy, still doesn't matter. It
means everyone's got the scale problem, and what statistics and the actually
falsifiable scientific facts tells us is that we're still pretty rare (and
thereby precious and valuable) even if it's our own little corner of the
Mandelbrotiverse.

Even if there's no judgement day a comin, if legacy, history and eternity is
your thing, all the better because eternity. Start loading up your meme torpedo
to shoot off into the future. If the Asimov's and Musks of the world manage to
get us off the planet, spreading our biology and intelligence, stuff you do
today could still echo and reverberate through eternity, no God necessary. 

Blessed if you do, blessed if you don't, is how I see it. If you're like that,
like me, there's going to be those that hate you for it and secretly want to
see you fail. Some folks will make the ***humans are a virus*** argument here,
and  cast us as just more ***greedy aliens*** in a race to colonize the galaxy
like we did the Americas and Africa. That's just the pessimists talking. If we
don't wipe ourselves out, we won't wipe them out. 

Evolution leads either to growth and enlightenment, or a dead-end. Look at the
most successful large-animal templates on Earth, for example. Not all reptiles
are ambush predators, the most efficient way of getting those yummy amino
acids. It takes intelligence to let the food come to you. Crocodilians are a
good design. Aerodynamic. Camouflaged. They can go a long time without eating.
They've outlasted the dinosaurs and have been around longer than any mammal. So
all big animals should be crocodilians, right? Or at least ambush predators.

But no. We have the sweet, lovable tortoise who traded shock-and-awe predation
for a long life of slow, steady veggie chomping. Of course the trade-off is
that you need a pretty good force field to protect you from the predators, but
we're working on that. Of course some regress again, and you've got the
Alligator Snapping Turtle. I mean, it's terrifying, have you seen that thing?
It's up there with the angler fish. But the exception doesn't invalidate the
statistically significant rule. Evolution ***can*** lead to stable, long-term
and quite friendly designs.

I'm working on such designs. Or rather, I'm working on the turtle shields of
the mind. The 1-textfile for life journal that will shield your mind against
today's onslaught of negativity in the media. That's ***designed*** to break
you. The world needs tools forged from the fires of free and open source, and
the best tools we have for thought, such as vim, Markdown and YAML.

Nobody asked me, you say? No, nobody did. But guess what? I keep a journal and
with mo more effort than I put into my subconscious dredging sessions which I
do anyway to be a better person, this. 

And ***that's*** where our real sorry begins. Your story. The story. I am here
to show you how to write the story of your life and add it to the tapestry of
all that is, ever was, and ever will be in a way just slightly brighter than
fading off into obscurity in this materiel world. 

I meme therefore I am. 

Read a bit. 

Read Dawkins' The Selfish Gene, or at least read enough to really internalize
the premise of the inventor of Memes. He's rich enough so if you can find a way
to do it without paying, kudos. 

What about Dawkins? The shellfish replicator. Uh, I mean the selfish
replicator. There's about 200 amino acids, the tiniest molecule legos of life.
We're built from the 20most  common. Our bodies make 11 of them and we need to
consume (scavenge) the other 9, plus water. Anyone ever tell you this? No? Same
on them. The game of life starts here. Amino acids link into ribonucleic acid,
which are both the factory for building and the instructions for how to do so.
They coil into DNA which coil onto chromosomes which float around in amniotic
liquid environment packaged to go inside cell walls built the same way.
Familiar? No? This is why you read the book. 

Everything form of life on the ocean, extremophile in the methane vents,
tardigrade in outer space, mycelial network in the soil, is carrying out
programming acquire through the evolutionary pressure to be the Lego builder
and not the Lego pieces. A long enough strand to have some decent coding along
this line we call a gene. Successful genes make more like themselves. There, I
saved you the money.  

The Dawkins and the Hawkings think there needn't be the hands of some similar
self-creative with its biblical demands. God or not, scavengers and replicators
are a reality. It's a self-similar principle at the atomic scale, cellular
scale, human scale, and I'm fairlu confident at the cosmic scale too with the
Galactic web looking like slime mold and all. 

After The Selfish Gene which is where the concept of Memes was born (no, it was
not 4Chan or Reddit), take up Neil Stevenson's 1992 book Snow Crash. It's the
perfect follow-on to Dawkins' 1976 book. Took you long enough, Neil! No but
seriously you won't believe Snow Crash came before the Web. Raven will offer
you a free sample of Snow Crash, so chase the rabbit. 

Did somebody say chase the rabbit. Re-read Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. Or
read it for the first time if you haven't so that you can re-read it. And then
re-read it again. Do this every 2 to 5 years as the planned results of designed
obsolescence strikes you and wipes your ability to make money in your field. Go
ahead, it's a quick read and you'll have plenty of time. 

Nonsense, you say? Fair enough. Go do whatever else you were planning, like
becoming middle management so you won't actually need to know how to do stuff
anymore and are even more replaceable by AI automation. Think the techs are the
ones most vulnerable? Think again. Depends on your tech, and the timelessness
of the Wonderland series will help that sink in for reasons that are not
entirely clear. Clean cup!

The time has come this author thinks to speak of precise things. Of quips
you're told to feel like that you ought to serve a king. Thanks to the Israeli
paratrooper turned world's best SEO and StackOverflow founder, Joel Spolsky.
Joel's major contribution to this world was training OpenAI's ChatGPT to code,
giving it to you formatted in the very Markdown format his buddy and co-founder
and Daring Fireball Jeff Atwood invented. Rarely have there been more
influential unknowns.

Then GitHub was invented. Different folks than Joel and Jeff but the same deep
double whammy concept is there as with Stack Overflow and Super User, Server
Fault, Meta Stack Exchange, Web Applications, Arqade, Ask Ubuntu, Mathematics,
English Language & Usage, Unix & Linux, Ask Different (Apple), WordPress
Development, Geographic Information Systems, TeX - LaTeX, Database
Administrators, SharePoint, User Experience, Game Development, Programmers,
Electrical Engineering, Android Enthusiasts, Information Security, Science
Fiction & Fantasy, Code Review, Code Golf, Quantitative Finance, Project
Management and Movies & TV... 

Uh sorry I got stuck in a Stack Exchange loop... let me try this paragraph
again. The same double-whammy 1 + 1 = infinity collaborative content righteous
feedback loop of assume that exists with Stack Overflow exists even more so
with GitHub. Whereas the JJ's brought us Markdown, a key early employee of
GitHub Tom Preston-Werner brought us TOML, Tom's Obvious, Minimal Language,
what is to data what Markdown was to HTML. 

On a profoundly related note, Tom also brought us Jekyll the static site
generator that's built into GitHub eliminating the need for WordPress,
Squarespace and such. TOML is used in conjunction with Markdown to crate web
pages, adding the piece missing from Markdown: structured data. 

TOML is a short textfile-based data description language similar for the also
popular YAML language, but is more explicit and arguably easier to read than
YAML, which begs the question: If Jekyll supports TOML because both were made
my Tom, and Jekyll is in GitHub, why is YAML now the bomb?

Answer: A 10-year head start. An 80/20-rule sort of "good enough".
Institutionalization of YAML, which is being used in compliance requirements to
ensure that policies are being followed, so its use becomes part of mandatory
compliance laws. TOML can't fight all that, so it is another superior tech that
gets tossed in the trash heap with reStructuredText (reST) and the Amiga
computer, driving off into the sunset in a Tucker Torpedo on the LISP hardware
highway. 

Yeah, so anyway if Joel and Jeff gave us Markdown and Tom gave us Jekyll with
YAML, then I'm knitting it all together to give you YAMLchop. 

YAMLchop is a one big textfile for life. Toss in a light sprinkling of whatever
life-level metadata as the whole file's top matter. But then use very visually
strong "slicing" or "parsing" symbols to separate post from post, day by day,
and... then... you... chop! Chop, chop, chop! Choppity, chop chop goes the one
big file into all the perfectly arranged, organized, and optionally search
engine optimized and published files of a very passable blog.

For the slicing symbol to separate the posts and define the chop, I use 80
hyphens. Its reminiscent of the 3-hyphens used by Jekyll for that system but is
visually much stronger and sets a good readable column width to aspire to.

Within each sliceable day is another YAML header with a date and title field.
Only date is required. If you're publishing, adding a title indicates this, and
OpenAI (or any AI system) steps on to add a headline, summarized description
and the keywords, topics, categories, tags or whatever nearly interchangeable
label you want to put on such things. 

Keep the AI out if you want a completely private journals. Never even upload it
to GitHub if you want it 100% private on your local machine. Keep it on your
Mac or Windows laptop. Or put it on a Raspberry Pi server in your house as your
own sort of GitHub and a way to make to flow to any hardware you sit down on.
Get wherever privacy or publicity features you want. 

Use it as an alternative to WordPress, Microsoft Word or Google Docs. Invite
Copilot in while you write for some extra AI-advantage. Or don't. It all works
well, and any way you Alice it, it's going to improve your life in countless
ways it'll take another long rambling post like this to tell you about. 

And finally, I've given it a nice permissive MIT license so you can do whatever
you want with it. Don't like my decisions? Well, it's the easiest most
beautiful code y'ever saw, so fork it and make your own version. Or submit pull
requests and improve the overall system for everyone. Are you an SEO looking
for a secret weapon? Pretty soon this'll do the URL-submit on the Google Search
Console back-end (again, ***optionally*** for all you private journalers).

Yeah, so what do you think? Good rough draft for my big contribution thing?
Write about it in your journal.






















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-a-linux-script-adventure/">Rappelling Down The Rabbit Hole: A Linux Script Adventure</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/are-you-jacked-into-the-metaverse-or-living-in-flatland/">Are You Jacked Into the Metaverse or Living in Flatland?</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/static-site-generator/'>Static Site Generator</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/wordpress/'>WordPress</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/yaml/'>YAML</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/jekyll/'>Jekyll</a></h4></li></ul>