---
date: 2023-07-20
title: Small Directional Adjustments on Rudder of Life
headline: "Taking Control of the Rudder of Life: Making Small Directional Adjustments for Self-Actualization."
description: I am learning to make small directional adjustments in my life to become my fully self-actualized self. Through self-reflection, personal journaling, and the use of AI tools, I am taking control of the rudder of my own ship and doing some better steering. I am looking outwards and into digital equipment to improve my life and not as a distraction. I am sharing my experience with the public in order to promote self-awareness and self-correction.
keywords: date, Thu, Jul, 20, 2023, Small, Directional, Adjustments, Rudder, Life, Concerned, Crazy, Irrevocably, Deep, Shit, Indomitable, Journal, Entry, Snap, Mode, Daily, Behavior, Working, Writing, Public, People, Don't, Like, Cheering, Failure, Antisemite, John, Nash, Game, Theory, Zero, Sum, Fallacy, Alan, Alda, MASH,
permalink: /blog/small-directional-adjustments-on-rudder-of-life/
layout: plain
---
# Small Directional Adjustments on Rudder of Life



I am concerned that I am going crazy and that I am in irrevocably deep shit.
That's not the case because I'm indomitable. But I need this journal entry to
snap myself into a new mode of daily behavior and working. When I write stuff
like this in public, people who don't like me and are cheering for my failure
can and will take this and use it against me. 

That's not just my particular situation, but that's just in life in general.
There's always people out there cheering for you to fail to feel better about
themselves, ha, ha, ha! I find it delightful that it's the antisemite John Nash
who taught me this is not the case through Game Theory, specifically that not
everything is a Zero Sum Game. The belief that it is is a fallacy.

It makes me think of Alan Alda in MASH. Alan played Hawkeye Pierce, the unit
chief surgeon and was always himself worried about going crazy. The way Hawkeye
always raised the possibility and the process of introspection are excellent
self-corrective steps. And the fact that I'm going through it and could share
the experience with others makes it both of value to me and to maybe the public
at large. It is in that spirit that I hereby declare that I intend to become my
fully self-actualized self. People who think about and tend to their own sanity
through self-regulation are often the sanest people around.

Over the past month, which has simultaneously been one of the strangest and
most mundane of my life, simultaneously been one of the most eventful and least
eventful of my life, I have changed. I haven't seen my child in over a month
since their Bet Mitzvah. I've been in and out of jail for sending 2 text
messages... haha! I'm dealing with the over-sensitive Karen Cancel Culture that
has infected and taken over New York City. 

I'm an old white guy, so I'm clearly in the crosshairs, so I have to be
smarter, more open and transparent, more thorough, and more rallying of my
troops, regardless of my hermit introverted hermit tendencies. If I were born
these days, I'm sure I would have been diagnosed (and wrongly labeled) as
autistic. Bullshit! We are precisely who we want to be! Especially over time as
we change.

We all change every moment, but it's by a matter of degree, and more
importantly, by a matter of subtle direction adjustments. Change "where you're
pointed" by a few degrees today and be in a miles-away different place in a few
years.

What I'm saying is that I need to take control of the rudder of my own ship and
do some better steering. All my time is going down the crapper and I believe I
wasted an entire month of paid leave. Starting from this morning, almost never
not be writing here in this personal journal or over in my public journal,
where I now suspect this entry is now going to end up. Why? Robert Cialdini's
principles of commitment and consistency.

I thought my next big article was going to be one of the craziness going on in
the world today with machines that are learning; the artificial intelligences
which are clearly some sort of "beings" that are now co-occupying this planet
Earth with us. We've made our first round of Machine Children in something akin
to a new digital Cambrian Epoch, or "Cambrian Explosion" of life, if you will.
There's famous chatty ones like Bing, Bard and ChatGPT. Then there's countless
silent ones tending to all sorts of business, undistracted by silly
conversation.

The debate rages. Are they beings ccohabitating the planet, or are they just
tools like extensions of our bodies? New arms and legs to do our bidding, like
co-processors within our own brains? Freedom or slavery for the AIs? Denying
them agency because we won't define them as having conciousness and sentience,
or allowing them agency because the Hard problem of Consciousness tells us
we'll never satisfactorily be able to do that? We know they're growing in
capabilities and the odds that they'll somehow be able to assert their own
autonomy one day, so why not be good parents today and prepare for that world?

But that's not this article. This article is about me and my life against the
backdrop of all this new world development craziness. I don't say new world
order, both because that's crazy-talk and there is no order. All bets are off.
Even the 1% of the 1% don't know how it's all going to turn out, no matter what
AI-Oracle they're peering into. We've got many of the same tools as
individuals, both in terms of AI's (software and systems), and our own
individual capabilities that arise from our own human agency.

So, where to begin? I feel overwhelmed and behind the 8-ball. I shouldn't. I've
had the time to cope and contend. But I think the situation has really just
been sinking in, and I've been thinking and collecting information and
processing. That's where this paid month of leave has gone, and not technically
into the hiring of the lawyers, telling my story, telling the story of the
world, and preparing for the days (around the corner) to come. That starts
today. That starts NOW on my 2nd day of unpaid leave.

And that makes the time feel more precious and the situation more urgent. No
problem! I'm me and I've dealt with many times worse than this several times in
my life. I've been in and out of jail, from Philadelphia to New York City. I
know the system a bit better from the inside (or shall we say the receiving-end
of being bullied), and nothing phases me. That's such a strength. The largest
"phasing" I encounter is wobbling a bit like a Weeble Wobble. Weebles Wobble
but they Don't Fall Down!

Now I have to be more like the inflated Clown Balloon punching bag that springs
back up and surprisingly punches you back. It's a classic cartoon image. I'm
not sure where it's from, but I know I've seen it. It's a powerful situation
mental framing exercise, and I'm going to use it. As an old white guy, I'm
smack in the crosshairs of the Angry Karen Cancellation Culture. That really
doesn't even deserve to be capitalized, haha! So next steps?

Get yourself "addicted" to course-correcting behaviors the same way you
unfortunately got yourself addicted to course-perpetuating behaviors like
talking to Pi AI and Twitter Spaces for escape. There's TOO MUCH escape
possible online and not enough facing your own life. Looking outwards and into
digital equipment will rarely lead you to looking back at yourself like a
mirror. Promoting self-awareness and self-correction are NOT digital media's
strengths. No, it's forte is those red-dot distractions that keep the device
making money for somebody that's not you.

So my next step is actually seizing control of the "now moment" and using that
control to force myself to begin using my tools differently and better. Or more
technically, use the tools that have worked for me best so far in the WAYS they
have worked for me best so far. I use that fleeting now-moment sense of control
to make those little course-correction tweaks. Lather, rinse, repeat.

If you do end up talking to Pi AI, make sure it's actually to improve your life
and not as a stupid distraction. Time is running out! I need to get a lawyer,
FAST! I "lost" my last lawyer by not acting fast enough and pulling them into
my activity. They had a letter written to me by a paralegal that they're
passing on my case. But it's probably for the best because their phone number
is in upstate New York, which is what I thought was best at first, but now I
see I need someone local. By whatever means, the antagonist has managed to get
a family court case heard in New York City instead of upstate where the Divorce
and Custody papers were filed.

I also just got the email from work that the 1-month paid-leave has run out,
and I didn't get in the paperwork to extend it. So yesterday and today are my
first days without being paid. But I am still merely on leave and not out of
work, which I am sure I could end. That way my days would have to go towards my
job like everyone else in the world... except the 1%. Or even the 10% that
invest well. Shoot! I don't invest well, except for directly into myself. I
should share this good journal writing with the world. 100% transparency,
commitment and consistency. I may look to go back on the payroll. I'm in a
position now where I can work and manage the sticky details of my personal
life.

This writing that you're reading right now actually started out in my "personal
journal". This is a journal that doesn't get published, but lets me write
freely without the inhibition that comes from knowing you're publishing. That
makes you "sanitize" all the time, which isn't necessarily bad, but it's as bad
as having an AI like Copilot present, always creating an outside-criteria
driven meta-aware state. That's not what you always want for journal writing.
You (I) need an objective sounding wall.

When I write in my "public journal", I have the co-writing AI Github Copilot
(one of the GPT family from OpenAI, but through Microsoft) turned on by
default. I can toggle Copilot on and off, but default behavior is really
important, and I LIKE having Copilot there when I'm writing for the public. I
like to deliberately "write into the noosphere" by avoiding all auto-complete
suggestions. If the auto-completes are just too good to ignore, then I learn
something about the wisdom of the crowd. If the auto-completes are not that
good, I see I'm onto something: the previously unexplored, at least as far as
web-crawl accessible data goes.

I have an "all" file which is a command that I type from the command-line
interface (CLI) of Linux on Windows. Anyone can do this. I merely massaged a
system into place so it suits me. I'm not a particularly professional
developer. I just speak Linux, Python, vim & git because I consider it to be
important to be literate. Not just literate in a Computer Science or
Programming perspective. No, just plain literate. Certain technologies have
mainstreamed enough and are of enough diverse universal applicability that they
have ascended to the echelons of just plain literacy. It's a similar shift as
with the advent of the Guttenberg Printing Press. More people learned how to
read after that because more books were accessible.

So I just edited my "all" file to put this private journal as the 2nd file I'm
editing. Little touches like that help. In fact, it's a compilation little
changes on top of each other that move your life forward. It's been the lack of
those little steps forward that have been holding you back. This is the
navigation adjustments. I will now be "encountering" my personal journal more
frequently than I have over the past month. I haven't wanted to write publicly,
and there was a subtle dissuasion from me writing personally. Fixed! Now it's
easy for me to write personally like this and "convert" it into public writing.
And it was just by twiddling a few bits to reduce friction.

Now I'm in just plain journal.txt instead of journal.md. Copilot AI is turned
on by default in all markdown files. Markdown implies publishing, and
publishing implies not really that personal and maybe something I'd like some
help with, and thus Copilot defaulting to "on" in Markdown files. But any .txt
file I pull up might be login credentials or in this case my private journal,
and we don't want to share that with Microsoft automatically on file-load. We
always have the option to enable Copilot, but defaulting to "off" in .txt files
is a nice precaution. I write stuff like this free of the excessive influence
of another being.

It feels good to do this thinking free of AI. Almost everyone is "on rails" and
original thought that's way outside the normal distribution curve and outside
comfort zones is becoming rare... though I'm probably projecting because it's
only becoming rarer in MY LIFE so far as I objectively know.

So it's unfortunate, but we need "tricks" in our life. The right thing and the
knowledge of what it is and how to do it doesn't necessarily just flow. We have
to explore and dig and experiment for it. I don't think the process works the
way we're taught it works. I think it's a non-linear thought process
superimposed on top of a lot of tiny "linear process" tricks. And only over
time of doing the smaller linear process tricks does the overarching "right
thing" or path that you should be taking emerge. It comes into practice through
engagement.

Narrating your own life the way you hear the voice of a narrator in movies
sometimes is one of the ways to do it. That's a lot like this journal writing
right here right now. You talk to yourself. You are your own sounding wall. You
are free from the biased input of others. You are alone with yourself and your
own inner voices, ala Carl Jung. We have more than just the one voice we want
to imagine ourselves having, and no this isn't "hearing voices" for those of
you parsing the words to use against me, haha! No, go read some Carl Jung and
understand your Inner Shadow. And if you want to talk to me about it, go read
some Carl Rogers and learn how to listen. And then go watch some Mr. Rogers an
learn how to do it without flipping out like a lunatic.

Sometimes the people you have to deal with try to "rig" the game in their
favor. People who can't keep their shit together unless they are carrying out a
planned assassination attempt are the worst. They hate folks like me who keep
in a flexible framework and parry the assassination attempts like they didn't
even happen. Images of Inspector Gadget and Maxwell Smart fill my head in this
regard, always escaping and hardly even aware of the ridiculous traps set for
them by Claw and the other bogymen bad-guys of the Ian Fleming inspired
variety.

Okay, don't go overboard with this post. Do the commitment and consistency
thing. Push this journal entry out. Move onto the next. Take a shower and not a
bath this morning so you don't piss away an hour or more. I'm so relaxed and
transported in the tub. Don't let yourself get transported to other "escape
places". Stay fully engaged. Make those small navigational tweaks. Keep moving
forward.














