---
date: 2023-04-18
title: Using AI to Streamline Blogging and Content Creation
headline: Streamlining Blogging and Content Creation with AI
description: I'm using the OpenAI API to simplify my blogging and content creation process. I'm writing my daily work-journal in a single markdown file and using AI to generate article summaries, meta descriptions, subheads, and keywords. I'm now looking to use browser automation and Github Copilot's API to save money. I also want to publish my Tweets, an Instapaper project, and read Daniel Kahneman's book. So many projects more approachable!
keywords: OpenAI API, Markdown File, Article Summaries, Meta Descriptions, Subheads, Keywords, Browser Automation, Github Copilot API, Tweets, Instapaper, Daniel Kahneman, E-E-A-T, Google Trends, Google Suggest, Microsoft Bing, Keyword Research
categories: google, browser automation, meta descriptions, seo
permalink: /blog/using-ai-to-streamline-blogging-and-content-creation/
layout: post
---


There are so many distractions right now that it's hard to focus on the work I
really need to get done. But some of the work I needed to get done was
"retooling" in light of the change happening in the world and distraction it's
creating. Namely, now that Intelligence as a Service exists in the form of the
OpenAI API, I needed it active in my life. Foot in the game, as it were.

So as my last few posts covered, I overhauled the system by which this blog
gets published. I keep this daily work-journal in a single markdown file called
journal.md in which I add my new entries to the top, for a natural reverse
chronological order. I've done this for years, publishing or not. But once I
started doing an actual public version of my journal, it seemed obvious to do
the whole data transformation thing to publish it.

This journal-slicing project is so tied to my field of SEO that it's hard to
imagine not doing it. So many insights arise from it, and so this is where I
blended the artificial intelligence in, writing my article summaries, meta
descriptions, subheads, and keywords. Now, whenever I write a new post (like
this one), all that categorizing, keywording, and summarizing is done for me.

I am cutting the catapult-ropes of my built-up internal potential. I'm not one
of these get-rich-quick overnight people. I basically hate business and the
whole money thing gives me anxiety. I don't save it much, but it does seem to
come easy to me. So why not accelerate the earning? Do so by practicing your
craft in a way that makes you a little more money?

Exactly how to do this, I'm not sure. But I do know that I'm at a new starting
point. I'm going to get myself writing more every day, if only now because of
the extra novelty of having OpenAI write my summaries and keywords. I'll watch
individual models get better over time, and I can experiment with new text
models. I can layer in picture generation, find my best YouTube videos to embed
on each article, and the like.

Practical use of AI today with scripting & scraping. I'll have to bring the
browser automation into this soon, so that I don't have to pay OpenAI ever
time. I should also see if Github Copilot has an API other than the one that
just shows up in the editor. If so, I could maybe use that which I already pay
for and which doesn't have a pay-per-play cost model like the developer OpenAI
API.

I need to carry through on more of my projects, like the publishing my Tweets
one that I did a few months ago as an experiment. I should finish that project
to actually get all my tweets going back in time to the beginning of an
account. It piddles out some partway through. There's a related project of
publishing particular tweet-threads as articles, in order to make my
experimental blogging via Twitter work also live native on my site. That's 2
Twitter projects.

I also want to do an Instapaper project. It will be better now than I
originally envisioned, because I can use the same AI summarizing process to
read everything I Instapaper bookmark for me and put the summaries on my site
in a way organized similar to my slice & dice blog system, now named ChopChop.
In fact, I should extend my blogslicer tech to whatever projects it could apply
to. Instapaper web article bookmarks is just such an obvious first pick.

Speaking of things I want to read, I need to read Daniel Kahneman's book,
Noise: A Flaw in Human Judgment. There's so much I want to understand and get
on top of things as they super-advance. The whole "in our lifetimes"
discussions that I have with Adi are getting crazy. If the technology
acceleration hockey stick curve has not impressed you over the past 50 years,
wait until you see the next 50 years.

Thinking through what's coming and how to creatively and lovingly ride that
wave is what this journal is becoming about. I didn't realize that what I was
doing was producing fodder for AI. I now have similar motivation to go back
into my older blog posts and maybe republish the ones that are still relevant
and that I still like. There's merit to it for even historic value. We're
trying to increase our E-E-A-T (Expertise, Authoritativeness, Trustworthiness)
per Google.

I also need to blend Google Trends, Google Suggest, and Microsoft's Bing
equivalents into something that keeps me informed every day with new keyword
research. I need to build things to be something like a natural radar system.
In such systems, you strike-off, black-list, or otherwise filter everything
you've already looked at and considered. In this way, when new stuff pops up
it's easier to notice and consider because everything you have done so with
already in the past is keeping new stuff that pops up that looks too much like
the old stuff from becoming part of the noise. More signal over time, or a
better signal-to-noise ratio over time is what you want.

Also now I can maybe put summaries of how sites are doing from a search, social
and links perspective right on the published blog pages themselves. You know,
connect to Google Search Console & Google Analytics while the pages are being
produced and show how much traffic the page has received, what query terms are
producing traffic to the page and the like. We don't want to make it too
spammy, but we do want to make it an example of what this very site is about.

Exude your competency. And finally you have a canvas upon which to perform
which isn't totally reprehensible to you, like the direction JavaScript
frameworks and the full web stack have gone. Be just about the opposite to that
sort of developer as you can be. I an not one of the cryptobros or sidehustle
pros. I'm doing things not to make money, but because I enjoy them and can
hardly believe that such things are now available to me.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/switched-from-text-davinci-002-to-text-davinci-003/">Switched from text-davinci-002 to text-davinci-003</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/nbdev-packaging-is-the-first-step-in-every-project/">Nbdev Packaging Is The First Step In Every Project</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/google/'>Google</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/browser-automation/'>Browser Automation</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/meta-descriptions/'>Meta Descriptions</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li></ul>