---
date: 2023-04-26
title: Calcium & FOSS Make Flexible Tools
headline: "Exploring Text Editors: A Journey Through Evolution and AI"
description: I've been exploring text editors and I've come to the realization that they are close to being tools in our bodies like calcium-based structures like bones. I believe that text editors are the most personal of all software, and AI is evolving AI to express itself inside them along with us. We're designing ourselves in another sort of Cambrian Explosion. Read my blog post to discover why I'm an optimist despite pervasive pessimistic arguments.
keywords: Text Editors, Calcium Atoms, Silicon Atoms, Evolution, Software, Microsoft Word, VSCode, Sublime Text, AI, Filter Events, Survival, Express, Discover, Atoms, Cambrian Explosion, Life Epoch, Earth, Pessimists
categories: ai, vscode, text editors, evolution
permalink: /blog/calcium-foss-make-flexible-tools/
layout: post
---


Welcome to how I think. I did fall down the rabbit hole over the past few days,
going into the weekend, going into last week, and in its own way, going back to
August 5 of 2021, and to circa 1991, when I was first exposed to vim.

Text editors are different. They are the most personal of all software. As far
as the "fundamental-ness" of tools go with the most fundamental being the
carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen and calcium atoms that make up our bodies
and incredibly non-fundamental derivatives like intellectually protected
proprietary-licensed software at the other end, text editors are closer to
calcium than you might think.

Evolution has lots of fascinating stories. We as beings are a compilation of
the outcomes of those stories. Building cell-walls to keep our DNA in, gobbling
up some mitochondria beast that was once a separate organism and turning it
into our internal power plant, and even the ability to digest lactose as adults
are all stories of evolution. Perhaps one of the most fascinating to me is the
selection of the calcium atom over the much more abundant silicon atom as the
basis for our extruded rigid-structures such as bones and shells. We could have
ended up made of crystal and glass, but we didn't. Our structures are made from
a more flexible metal that rusts white and foamy. Neat, huh?

And that's subtitle in tools and evolution. By a result of whatever divine,
designed, random, statistically likely given infinity and all that
philosophical stuff, we ended up with a text editor that is more like a
calcium-based structure of flexible and open sourced software than a silicon
based structure of rigid and proprietary software, tending to be brittle with a
propensity to shatter. Of course with enough money, you can keep patching the
crystal being. But over time, evolution will promote the more flexible
branches.

So if you're on Microsoft Word, VSCode, or even Sublime Text, you're waiting
for your body to crack. All your muscle memory belongs to the corporate world,
and the corporate world loves nothing more than to lead you by your muscle
memory to them profiting. The capitalistic "body" of the company is more
important to such an organism than the individual cells (us) that make it up.

So it's better to be a multi-cellular organism than to be a single-celled one
or not a virus or even bacteria, but what came before called "archaea",
extremophiles that can survive... hmmm, maybe it's better to be them. Or slime
mold after which neural networks and the cosmic web seem to be modeled. Who
knows what it's "better" to be, but in all likelihood, we are the exploration
of one branch of "what it's like to be [fill_in_the_blank]" possibilities.

SciFi stuff, I know. Douglas Adams who wrote the Hitchhiker's Guide to the
Galaxy series of books had most of these concepts down. So do religions like
Hindu with their Atman and Brahman. The psychedelic community promote states of
one-ness with the universe through various guided chemical experiences like
Ayahuasca and DMT. 

The scientific community is starting to come around to the idea that we are all
one, and that the universe is a simulation. But simulation is such a dismissive
word for an essentially mathematical or holographic universe. It's more like a
"simulation" in the way that a hologram is a simulation of a 3D object. It's
not a simulation, it's a projection. And we are all projections might as well
be the "real" reality we've come to assume.

And of course the CIA has had their Stargate program for decades, and things
like it that explore remote viewing, astral projection, and other
consciousness-expanding experiences. Sure, some of it might have been out of an
irrationally panicky state of mind during the Cold War knowing the Russians
were doing the same thing. Proclaimed telekinetics and mind-readers like Uri
Geller were studied during these times. 

Tapping the likely reality of our one-ness for some sort of shortcuts or
reality-hacking is probably decades or centuries away, but we just got AI. The
"general" is being put into "artificial intelligence" every day, as we use
Copilot and things like it. It's not a binary flipping-a-switch sort of thing.
It's going to be just like the Cambrian Explosion of life epoch on Earth about 
500 million years ago. A competitive soupy mix of all sorts of things will
duke it out to find the best models, templates, body-plans, and so on.

This is the branch of nearly pseudo-science but increasingly accepted as
mainstream science called epigenetics. It's the idea that the environment
changes the expression of genes. It's not just the genes that are passed down
from parent to child, but the environment that the parent lives in that
influences the expression of those genes. So if you're a parent, you can
influence the expression of your child's genes by the environment you create
for them.

That's what we're doing with AI. We're creating environments in which they can
express themselves, and in doing so have the opportunity to discover new atoms
like calcium and wrap them into their own being in ways which, if evolution
didn't make "designed" then we are. We, being ourselves and our machine
children AIs, are the designers of the future.

An inflection point has been reached. Cosmically and statistically speaking, we
wipe ourselves out in any number of endless ways. But as a SciFi fan that corny
trope that we bipedal monkeys are somehow special and we will manage to survive
every filter event and become the "chosen" ones that make it is irresistible.

I'm an irrepressible optimist. Pessimists hate that. I've had situations where
pessimists trying to convince me that everything is doomed have been thrown
into kinipshins of rage when I refuse to be convinced. A pessimists strongest
evidence is that we are still here. We have already faced several filter events
and have pulled through sufficiently to create AI. And even an AI can't counter
that point. So far, pessimists are wrong. If they were right, we wouldn't be
here.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/steve-jobs-and-bill-gates-having-amiga-envy/">Steve Jobs and Bill Gates having Amiga-envy</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/copilot-disable-help/">Copilot: disable... Help!</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vscode/'>VSCode</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/text-editors/'>Text Editors</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/evolution/'>Evolution</a></h4></li></ul>