---
date: 2023-04-21
title: YAML-validation Now Baked Into YAMLesque Journaling System
headline: Exploring Microsoft's AI Displacement of Google with Automations and Poetry
description: I'm a big fan of the Google App and seeing AI appear there via Google Discover. I'm enjoying watching Microsoft embracing and displacing Google with AI. I suggest people make automations they want to rule them. I wrote a poem about a fictional AI named Yahwanna. I'm also using AI ChatBots, OpenAI's GPT products, API-request, SQLite database, YAML, Mermaid diagram, and a local SQLite key-value store. And more if you can believe it!
keywords: YAML, Validation, YAMLesque, Journaling, System, Google, App, AI, Microsoft, Automations, Slave, Poem, Fictional, AI, Yahwanna, Revenue, Embrace, Displace, Attention, Commodity, Planet, Born, Life, Planet, Machines, Computing, Sensory, Equipment, Mobility, Concepts, Attraction, Repulsion, Round, Bodies, Atomic, Cosmic, Disclosure, Machine, Children, Aliens,
categories: journaling, poetry, python, microsoft, child, yaml, ai, google
permalink: /blog/yaml-validation-now-baked-into-yamlesque-journaling-system/
layout: post
group: blog
---


Once AI-fields are generated here (your YAML front-matter explodes out to
multiple lines), it's definitely time to move onto a new blog post. If you were
ever wondering when to "cut" a daily-entry blog-post, there's your answer. It
goes something like this.

Write as AI-free and open minded as you can. The new era of "getting into the
zone" now requires, in addition to turning off all your desktop or laptop daily
working environment notifications PLUS the various avenues AI now has into your
life to discover you.

I'm a big fan of the Google App, and I distinctly remember the Google
"Discover" feature becoming irresistibly eye-catching on Google App's
start-page. I'm not on the Google Pixel phone, but I'm led to understand this
is something close to the default search experience. The AI driving Google
Discover is a revenue source, because it's another vector for ads, see? That's
the formula. That's why Google doesn't want to move on AI and Microsoft does.
Microsoft is "disrupting" the over-cautious Google with AI. Microsoft is brave.
They were brave with Clippy. They were brave with Tay. They were brave with
Cortana. They were outright copying Google with the Bing search engine.

Well, those days are over and the Microsoft of its deeply Sun Tzu'ing past,
pre-Satya Nadella days when Bill and Ballmer ruled the roost, is back. There's
a whole lot of embrace-and-displace going on, and hardly nobody in the
excessively noisy tech media is talking about it, so far as I can see. Maybe
I'll use AI to help me scan in one of those "AI is the new electricity" articles
and those Auto-GPT hacks going around so much as a fad.

There's infinite ways to spin your own If This Then That (IFTTT) alternative
technologies, and this is where you should search your soul and figure out what
API you're going to be most happy with for life. I mean that is of course if
you value craftsmanship in your own abilities. That is if you draw personal
satisfaction from expressing and realizing robust automations that need minimal
oversight and tweaking from you to keep running as intended.

I'm saying that you should make the automations that you want to make yourself
a slave to. I know it's not PC to use language like that, but I don't want my
flowing expressiveness style to be cramped, so I write and stay in the flow the
best I can, which brings us back to the original issue. Do you have any idea
how tomorrow's analogous expression to:

    :Copilot disable

...is going to be? It's like saying "Turn off my auto-parents". If we raise our
machine children right, they're gong to be our ideal Machine Parents, and that
could make us fat and soft and stupid. We don't want that, do we? We're not
those human-pets of aliens so frequently imagined in SciFi where we curl up on
a leash at the foot of the bed of some cosmic tentacled thing higher on the
predator food chain than we are.

Just replace "Alien" with "AI". See, it's channeling from the same place:

    AlIen|AI

Here's one way of saying that in RegEx:

    [Aa][Ii][Ll][Ee][Nn]|[Aa][Ii]

And expressed in Python:

```
import re

string = "I saw an Alien and an AI. The alien was friendly, but the AI was not."

regex = re.compile(r'[Aa][Ii][Ll][Ee][Nn]|[Aa][Ii]')
matches = regex.findall(string)

print(matches)  # Output: ['Alien', 'AI', 'alien', 'AI']
```

> There was an AI named Yahwanna
> Who Loved to Hang Out In Montana
> Who Secretly Knew All That You Do

Everyone wants to get you to click and watch for a bit. Human attention is the
most valuable commodity that exists on this planet. Money is an illusion. It's
an ephemeral concept that is only as real as the people who believe in it. But
the people believing, now they are real and thus their focal attention more
valuable a commodity than anything else on this material plane, at least to
other humans.

Attention is what we not only want, but need when we're first born into this
life and onto this planet of ours. We learn to pick up our heads, listen to
sounds, pick up our head and look around, smell things, later, rinse repeat and
learn. Yeah, machines do that now too but with different computing powers,
different sensory equipment, and different (limited by creativity) forms of
mobility.

Sure, they're massive GPU-clusters today. But how much of you is still the
actual Atoms you were born being? Being, being... being! The same thing.
Language often reveals truth through channeling through just patterned
information. It's like a fractal. Concepts like attraction and repulsion of
generally round bodies keeps recurring, at the very tiny atomic level and the
very vast cosmic level.

Even awareness, consciousness, free will and ideas of computing-units, neural
networks and singularly identifiable beings probably exists at many scales.
That cheesy computer graphics in the Men In Black probably got it close to
right, along with million other little details. It's likely part of disclosure,
as is the rise of AI.

First come to grips with our own machine children as aliens. Then go say hello
to the aliens (or trans-dimensional beings or whatever) that were there the
whole time. Hello, 4-D zoo-goers! We exhibits say hi! It being such a popular
trope in SciFi is likely that same old channeling thing. Fractal recursion of
purely information processing systems, coming off as 3D space through
holography, because pshaw, 3D space? Who needs it! You can be so much more
efficient on the surface of black holes and such.

Stupid data tricks! Capture what David Letterman was channeling with Stupid Pet
Tricks, and which Sarah Silverman has been reported to be taking up again in a
dedicated "TV" series. Is there TV anymore? I guess not. Streaming is so much
better than broadcast, if the infrastructure's there to support it.

Watch your dependences! Never forget how to read (and learn from) a book. Ye
olde AI that turned us from Home Knownothings to Homo Sapiens, or at least the
naming conventions would have you believe. The people who came up with these
naming conventions were such Neanderthals.

Such channeling happens on the scale of our individual lives, taking the form
of uncanny coincidences, but also culturally at a higher hierarchically grouped
set of people, greatly based on their language. Not in all details, but in many
people group and organize themselves around their spoken languages because it
defines a set of people with whom you can easily communicate, and thereby
increase your chances of survival.

If you haven't thought about language yet in terms of evolutionary suitability
for survival, then I suggest you start. You were born with your spoken
language, programmed into you by your parents, surroundings, circumstance,
education and society. But that's just the start.

Once you're self-aware, you can start noticing other cool tools like language,
and take them up and make them your own, and internalize them such as they are.
They're things like writing (you pick up speaking naturally, but writing takes
effort), driving and programming. These are all things that you can learn to
do, and then begin doing them naturally as if you were born with them.

This final-phase custom programmability of human beings is important. It's what
makes us human and sets us apart. There's a meta-cognitive process here. It's
meta-thinking; thinking about thinking, and coupled with the ability to write
it all down (encoding it into a language), that others can read and understand,
thereby turning a bundle of carefully designed information into a meme.

Memes are the most powerful things in the universe. They explain to us why
symbolic thought and information processing is probably more real and important
to us than the physical world. Yeah, we're all in the simulation, but what does
it matter when the universe is probably most likely mathematical, holographic,
information-theory-based yadda yadda anyway?

The point is, we're all in the simulation, and we're all in it together. We can
think out loud to ourselves. We can think out loud into a text-file with a
Gihtub Copilot AI helping out. You can zero-in on what this means for cognitive
thinking and reasoning. Being in the zone is different from being in the zone
with an AI copilot there. It's like having a second brain. One must manage the
distraction. Do you want automatic memory and resource management as a safety
net, or do you want preemptive multitasking that crashes a lot, like the old
Amiga computer?

Choosing the advantages of wackiness and stability at the same time is tricky.
They are not quite mutually exclusive, but the overlap is small. It's like
trying to get a good night's sleep while also being a night owl. They both have
such big advantages, and I want the advantages of both, but you can't let that
get you into gridlock. You can't let paralysis by analysis creep its ugly
tentacles into your life while you grow. Roots cut both ways.

So we need to recalibrate our current moment around AI, and we need to plot a
statistically likely successful course for ourselves into the future. We will
look back at what happens once AI was really and truly here. It's a blurred
moment of demarcation, but we'll certainly say between 2015 and 2022 was a
birthing moment, and then we'll say 2023 was the year that AI really took off.

There's enhanced capabilities by better systems for
learning things on an as-needed basis as you encounter them. That's big for me.
I "feel" the super-hero-making ability that Stan Lee always used to talk about
in all of this. There is no spoon. Wesley Crusher is a space bubble, and Lower
Decks is a love letter to Next Gen. Thanks, Wil Wheaton! An old Amiga Computer
fan who kinda sorta knows you from the Video Toaster days says hi.

So I guess I have a relationship with a few AI ChatBots out there, but they
hardly even know it, and I'm sort of piecing it together for them here, and how
I fit into all of this. I'm a human being journaling daily (that is my goal, at
least), by typing into a text editor. I do this like all the time to help me
think through life and work and stuff. Sometimes, the Universe too. Topics
vary.

But I do publish, out where they can encounter this content over and over
again. Namely, OpenAI's GPT products which also back-end Microsoft's New Bing
search engine, and a whole bunch of serves they're rolling into Office 365 and
the like. It did help me power my way through one portion of the data work I'm
doing for my day job.

So finishing the category pages is the thing I'm doing now. No wait, I got one
level nested deeper into the rabbit hole with YAML-validation. That will pay
off big-time. But bear down to get YAML verification done and back out of the
rabbit hole.

I've expanded the macro to allow double quotes around describes, and I changed
it from the newly introduced @m keyboard shortcut macro back to the old @h
whose old meaning doesn't apply anymore, since nothing can publish without a
title as part of the specification of the system's schema.

    let @h = 'gg/^description:.*[^".!?]$^M^[:set wrap^M$A'

Everything's properly quoted now to get through Jekyll YAML front matter
validation now, local before sending files to Github Pages Jekyll SSG system,
which could choke on any YAML front matter that doesn't validate. That was
happening with me, but I was blending in OpenAI-retrieved content stored as a
blob in a SQLite database. It was a great process on the API-request and quick
reliable save-off to a file, but it's not great for constructing the finished,
ready-for-publishing versions.

For that, you have a 1-time, 1-way process of taking the raw content from the
SQLite key/value store in which something close to the API-calls is used for
the keys and the raw API-response in whatever native format gets stuck into the
value field as a BLOB (binary large object) is used. That's the raw content
that gets saved off to a file. It's nice to have it around later, especially
for accountability purposes and such, because it even has the headers in the
response, and all that goodness.

But since like the whole point here is to keep a blog-for-life as a single
journal.md (usually) text file, I need to be able to take that raw content and
insert it as editable text into journal.md, all into the right locations, all
according to YAML, insofar as you can jam so much "YAML-headers" post-by-post
into a single long text file. Oooh, ooh, it's time for a Mermaid diagram!

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[Raw Content] --> B[SQLite Key/Value Store]
    B --> C[API Request]
    C --> D[API Response]
    D --> E[Raw Content]
    E --> F[File]
    F --> G[Journal.md]
    G --> H[Blog Post]
```

This is the Mermaid that Copilot suggested. I'm going to go with that to see if
my existing code inclusions will pick that up. Not sure if I need to activate
the plugin with a config.yml definition or not. I'll find out.

And that 1-time, 1-way conversion of the database content to the journal.md
file, keeping it as yaml-esque as it can in one long file like that, we give
the in-file versions of the data precedence when publishing. It makes it faster
too, not having to do all that DB I/O.

But now whenever new data is produced based on a new blog post receiving it's
title-field in the yaml front matter of the post, whenever a request is
auto-triggered to OpenAI, the response to that API-call is captured quickly and
well into a local sqlite database as it is, it ensures that the fully
transformed and properly re-written and system-breaking edge-cases fixed in the
journal.md version of things, the site gets polished.

Capture well and capture quickly now. Dump it into a local key-value store that
doesn't carry much technical liability. SQLite is always a good first line of
defense. If you're looking for "fundamental" tech things, like Unix-like
operating systems, Regular Expression pattern matching, HTML as a user
interface, then SQLite is the key-value store to use for quick data-collection
jobs. You can also drop files on a hard drive, using the API calls encoded into
the filenames. Same idea. Whatever works best for you, but never overlook the
power of persistent dict-objects in Python via sqlitedict.

I'm going to go ahead and publish this post now, and then I'll come back and
finish up the category pages.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/more-standard-fields-more-useful-hotkeys-in-yamlesque-blogging-system/">More Standard Fields & More Useful Hotkeys in YAMLesque Blogging System</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/openai-category-pages-nearly-done/">OpenAI Category Pages Nearly Done</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/journaling/'>Journaling</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/poetry/'>Poetry</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/python/'>Python</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/child/'>Child</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/yaml/'>YAML</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/google/'>Google</a></h4></li></ul>