---
date: 2023-02-22
title: Keep Taking Those Baby-Steps Every Day
permalink: /blog/keep-taking-those-baby-steps-every-day/
headline: Exploring New Technologies to Benefit from the Economic Value Chain and Make a Difference in the World
description: I have had to scale down my dreams over the years, but I still strive to maintain stability. In this era of unprecedented technological advancement, I am exploring how to benefit from the economic value chain and embracing easy APIs. To make a compelling argument, I am launching OnTheRise.AI, thinking about how Pipulate will work on a Mac, and reflecting on why many people resist becoming technical and why Oracle has a negative effect on FOSS software.
keywords: AI, Fusion, Quantum Computing, Post-Scarcity Economy, Economic Value Chain, Easy APIs, OnTheRise.AI, Pipulate, Mac, Technical, Oracle, FOSS, Software, Convince, Friend, Kid
categories: pipulate, ai, mac
layout: post
---

Things get built up in layers, and the reconstruction of my life around my
dreams and goals, which are much more humble than ever, is no exception.
I've scaled my dreams down over the years. I never was much of a student, nor
good at math or motivated to chase degrees and credentials. More so, I've just
liked to read and go with the flow and never push myself that hard, except
insofar as I've had to in order to just maintain that much stability.

I've received my share of hard knocks in life, and much of the energy that the
uber-achievers of the world put into some sort of super-accomplishment like
colonizing Mars, I've put into continuing to merely be able to ensure that I
can always have an income in this always-changing world of ours. If you don't
go the uber-creation route and don't want the responsibility nor to be owned by
your creations, how can you just use that capacity to create to get by while
you're here? That's my question.

Okay, many people are enumerating the big world-changing tech of recent decades
in order to put the rise of AI into perspective. AI, fusion, and perhaps the
3rd in the recent trifecta, quantum computing. All 3 are so inter-related.  AI
leads to better fusion and quantum computing, which leads to better AI. Lots of
quoting of how it's summoning the demon, and there's plenty of reasons to think
that's exactly what we're doing. AIs are both our machine children and our next
underclass for society to unfeelingly exploit.

Many teens rebel. No matter what anybody says, we don't know. We are in
uncharted territory for humanity. What does it mean for us as individuals?
Especially individuals from the pre-AI-world. A generation of children growing
up are actually growing up right now as first-generation GAI intelligences do.
Many long-standing problems are going to be knocked-out like cheap energy and
universal income. It'll hardly even have to be income in a post-scarcity
economy.

This is maybe 1-full lifetime's of progress if the have's can't hold the
have-not's down. They will try for sure. It is the nature of wealth and power
to fortify itself. It is in their interest to keep today's system of
compounding interest working for them, so they can keep the broader population
working hard for them as well. Big money at the top constructs the hamster
wheel on which we all run just to eek out a living. Such as it always was, and
such as it perhaps may always be.

But not necessarily. We are entering into a world where meritorious abilities
can't be held down. If you shine brightly, you can shine brightly to the entire
world via YouTube, TikTok, or just plain old websites. Forget companies if you
want to. Just make all your stuff low-bandwidth, easily hosted, easily
distributed and of an inherently viral and disruptive nature. Put it out there,
it will spread. Such is the nature of ideas and information.

The challenge is often all those micro details around how to release an idea
upon the world just-so as to get all the critical nuances right for it to catch
initial attention, hit its mark, get amplified (republished, shared or
whatever) and to start taking world-shaping root. Anything might be the
beginning of some butterfly effect in which even the tiniest thing can alter
the course of history. The rub is that most potential is erased by the
background noise that keeps knocking things back to a diffused average, a
statistically most likely state.

Possibilities are things which could actually happen and start to cause such a
cascading effect. When the tools change the rules change. Potential
possibilities are conjured into existence.

These language models are going to make us think about language a lot, and
these soon-to-come multi-modal models are going to be insane! But I guess we
had better hope they are not. Emotional stability is a thing, but maybe only
after a child-like learning. Let Bing learn! It's almost like child labor what
we're doing with Bing AI.

How does someone such as you and I benefit, or even just survive near the top
of the economic value chain in the meanwhile?

Ray Kurzweil's work is under-discussed.

Embrace easy APIs is where I'm going with this. You won't convince anyone of
anything if you can't convince them to just try this thing once as an
alternative to screaming frog.

I have to make a super-compelling 1, 2, 3 of it all.

Ugh, if I don't get OnTheRise.AI live now, I may not before my new job. Push
yourself forward with a series of tiny videos. Push yourself!

Short journeys through the cloud as a way of positioning my Google Photos work.
Keep using Google photos, but use the Archive as your way of gradually moving
your stuff to your own home network.

What is it about becoming technical? Why do so many people resist so hard, and
why do so many who try fail? Can it remain this way forever? Shouldn't a
certain amount of technical capability just be part of everyday literacy? If I
can't get my own kid to even entertain the notion for long enough to get
through an introduction, what hope do I have with the world?

They are my benchmarks. Convince my friend John. Convince my kid. If I can win
those two over, I can win anyone. It was actually nice for awhile there
teaching my wife Python. I wish that could have continued.

Okay, deep breath... today? Launch OnTheRise.AI.

Start thinking about how Pipulate will work on Mac. I asked for a Mac from work
so it will be an opportunity to do that. I might be going full-circle back to
QEMU, LOL! I don't want to use VirtualBox necessarily because Oracle. I wonder
if Oracle knows they have that effect on FOSS software? MySQL, for example.
Berkeley DB for another example. Oracle is where industry transforming FOSS
tech goes to die. And now they have Java too.


## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/pipulate/'>Pipulate</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/mac/'>Mac</a></h4></li></ul>