---
date: 2023-05-01
title: 1 Text-file Journal For Life as Important as Formal Education
headline: My Journey to Master Text-file Journaling for Life-Long Learning
description: I'm a 52-year-old technology generalist who has been exploring the noosphere, the world of ideas and creativity. I've been building up my internal tools, such as Linux, Python, vim and git, to create potential. I'm now combining YAML and Markdown to create a 1-text-file journaling system that is more flexible and intuitive than other solutions. I'm exploring the power of text, and how it can be transformed and used to create something meaningful.
keywords: Journaling, Life, Education, Science, Engineering, Graphic Design, Web Development, Data, NodeJS, JavaScript, htmx, Literacy, Language, Math, Interaction, Beliefs, Experiences, Tools, Hardware, YAML, Markdown, XML, JSON, Jekyll, Hugo, TOML, SSG, GitHub Pages, CMS, Documentum, Interwoven, Vignette, Joomla, Drupal, Django, Wordpress, Site Migration
categories: journaling, science, javascript, json, wordpress, jekyll, web development, yaml
permalink: /blog/1-text-file-journal-for-life-as-important-as-formal-education/
layout: post
group: blog
---


I want to live in the noosphere. There's something about doing things first in
life that's appealing. I should have been a scientist, but because of the old
bully stereotypes of the eighties, I shied away from the more nerdy pursuits. I
went for engineering. Yeah, much less nerdy. But Calc 102 & Physics 101
defeated me (a real crime) and I ended up a graphic designer... for a short
while. All the subjectivity of graphic design drove me nuts and I gravitated
towards the more objective world of web development and data mastering.

So here I am. 52 years old, and quite good at jockeying round data. I've more
or less given up on web development because of the awful state of JavaScript
frameworks and NodeJS, namely the constant churn & burn of your skills and
know-how. The Web never really settled on fundamental tools or best practices,
but there is hope. That hope is htmx and things like it, and I will venture
back into it in good time as my projects demand it and the necessity to invest
in immanently obsolete skills is reduced.

You'd think that the hunger to be part of first-time ideas and inventions would
be at odds with the dislike of churn & burn, but it's not. The tools are your
eyes, ears, arms, legs, and brain. They're not the hardware you can't change.
Or at least your lower-level tools are. Higher-level tools like language and
the ability to read ***and write*** (literacy) are later-stage tools that get
programmed into you, but might as well be hardware. Everything else gets built
upon it, and swapping out early-stage low-level tools is tantamount to trying
to swap out arms, legs, eyes, ears and brain.

With your nature-given hardware and the low-level tools programmed into you as
a result of the circumstances of your birth (parents, society, etc.), you can
work on the higher-level tools. Waking, talking, interaction with your
environment and others like you. Math. With the tool of language now built-in,
the power to make observations, draw conclusions, test hypothesis, incorporate
in new learnings, modify beliefs, lather, rinse, repeat. Layer upon layer, the
tools stack up until you're a human being experiencing life.

Peoples' experiences vary from each other, as do the precise nature and details
of the tools they've built themselves up from. Many disordered people have
wrong-tools or missing-tools or misaligned-tools built-in at those low-levels.
It's not quite as easy as a plug-and-play transplant to fix stuff because of
the interrelatedness of it all. Nonetheless, we're all built up this way, and
it is our starting point at any given moment when looking out at the world and
thinking "what next?" What to do? What to do? What to do?

If you're in the fortunate situation of having been built up with advantageous
tool-layers, in that they are functional and work the way you expect and intend
most of the time, you can look for new things. Many don't. Many look for the
same old things because it suits their comfort level. They were taught fear at
a young age and the primary programming is fear-avoidance. Defer every pleasure
and experience at your disposal today for the assurance you'll wake up safe and
sound tomorrow morning and into your old age. Pshaw!

Fear is the mind-killer, and all that. Frank Herbert, the author of Dune, does
some really awesome channeling. If you have recurring images in your mind that
don't seem to necessarily relate to your life in obvious ways, your
subconscious is trying to tell you something exactly as with dreams, but
intruding over that strange subconscious to consciousness boundary into your
waking life. I've got 4 powerful metaphors that drive me at that level every
day:

- What's most broken?
- Where do you get the biggest bang for the buck?
- What plates need spinning?
- Beware excessively deep rabbit holes.

Makes sense, right? Perfect daily routine application of the 80/20-rule. You'd
think I'd be further ahead by 52 years old abiding by this, huh? Well, maybe I
am. Maybe I've avoided the experiential trappings of excessive financial
success too early in life. But you can do ***more*** with savings and money in
your pocket than without, right? Well, will a billionaire learn vim?

I have arguably better internalized tools in me, of the sort that really make
me happy and in a perpetually "ready position" in life, than a billionaire.
Sure, they have better numbers in some piece of software to look at which
triggers the neurotransmitters they find so pleasurable, but I can sit down at
almost any machine on earth and take control of it, given a terminal connection
of the sort that almost every programmable machine on earth has.

I did not develop this ability out of a "having made it" feeling or attitude. I
developed it out of the attitude of the tribe's hunter who has to continue
feeding their tribe given the unpredictability of the hunt, the seasons, and
the very changing nature of the world. I looked around at all the potential 
game out there, the ease and difficulty of making sustenance out of it, and
decided that the most reliable game was text. All text. Any text. All tech 
runs on text. All tech is text. Mastery of text is mastery of tech.

And so here I am a sort of modern hunter in the digital landscape, and new
critters are popping up. Those critters are AIs, and the ones that are popular
in the public's mind at least, are the text-based ones. They are the ones that
generate text. I mean of course visual always plays in too, because it's
another type of language that's always running in parallel to the symbolic
spoken one, and that's Dall-E and Midjourney. And art has always nagged at me
as the other language I should be developing more. Drawing, painting and
general illustration skills.

So in addition to may daily metaphors from most-broken to rabbithole-awareness,
the need to visually communicate and manifest pictures from thought has been a
strong image. On that note, I should really be jumping on Midjourney and things
like it. And I will. It's just I'm perhaps not up to the picture part of the
equation yet.

But I will be soon. Because every other one of those subconscious nagging
images are... well, images. Foremost among them is the cutting of catapult
ropes. My investing internally into myself over the years with Linux, Python,
vim & git have created potential. There's almost like an internal pressure
inside of me now forcing its way out to being expressed, because my body
detects I actually have the ability to do so now.

Cutting catapult ropes would be a good description of what I did when I altered
my 1-long-page journaling system that only really used markdown and simulated
the existence of data-fields by inferring stuff about the first and second
headline, which had to be a date and title respectively, into explicit
data-fields according to the YAML standard.

Markdown is a markup language. It's a minimal markup language, thus the "down"
of markdown. But YAML is not a markup language. Wanna know what YAML stands
for? YAML is not a markup language.

There have been things like it before that have mixed data and markup, namely
XML. But XML was so overweight and burdened by its difficult to type and
difficult to read HTML-like pointy brackets, along with its strange parsing
model that requires it abides by these very stringent rules of well-formedness
(proper nesting) and self-terminating elements, and the parsers being highly
opinionated, incompatible with each other, and mostly written in C and only
installable at the OS-level... ugh, flashbacks!

YAML is a breath of fresh air. It's a data serialization language that's
actually readable by humans. It's a superset of JSON, which is another data
serialization language that's actually readable by humans that taught us
there's a better way than XML. Better, but not good enough. Those
pointy-bracket are tough to read and type, right? Well are curly braces really
any better? If the data structure is just implied through natural looking
hyphens as bullet-points, indents as groups and dashes as separators, then
why introduce all that pointy/curly-bracket noise?

The area of the noosphere I'm exploring is connecting some dots so that I can
organize information with more flexibility, deliberateness and creativity than
I've ever been able to put into it before. Content management systems (CMS)
like from the olden days like Documentum, Interwoven, and Vignette were all way
too complex, straight out of the world of XML and worse, SGML. The modern web
replacements such as Joomla, Drupal, Django, and Wordpress are all too web-tech
and implementation specific. They're hardwired to the strong opinions of their
creators, and the concept of just generically and artistically transforming the
data from out of those systems for other uses, such as alternative publishing
presentation layers, which while possible especially for site-migration between
systems, was not a first-class citizen of the system.

And so we have YAML, a better markup language for this sort of thing, right?
No, YAML is not a markup language! It just follows so many of the simplifying
principles of one, especially in today's massive uptake of markdown, that it's
irresistible to think of it that way. So irresistible headline fact that maybe
YAML should be seamlessly intertwined with markdown in such a way that each
offers its own strengths for what they do best, and together they do stuff
better than anything else.

And indeed, this combination has taken the world by storm in the form of static
site generators (SSGs). The most popular of these is Jekyll, which is the
default SSG for GitHub Pages. But there are many others. And many of them use
the same basic YAML front matter. There's also TOML, which is another that's
also less syntax heavy than JSON, but more syntax-heavy than YAML in how TOML
strives to eliminate ambiguity. Leave out syntax and you rely on "conventions".
YAML requires you just knowing these conventions while TOML tries to make them
explicit. But Jekyll chose YAML, and so do I in the spirit of leaning into the
sweet-spot strengths of your tools, in precisely the same way I'm choosing
Jekyll over the faster and Python-native static site generator called Hugo.

Jekyll, YAML, Hugo, TOML... you'd think this was just another barrage of
imminently obsolete alphabet soup that's just going to be replaced by the next
thing. But I don't think so. These are simple text-techs. They're easy to read
and most importantly, easy to transform. Start out with Jekyll/YAML and switch
to Hugo/TOML? No problem. It's almost a 1-to-1 mapping.

So what's new in the noosphere if all this is solved problems? Having it ***all
in 1 file***! Jekyll uses YAML front-matter over potentially thousands of
files, spread across potentially hundreds of folders, and you're back into the
same old incomprehensible conundrum of the old CMS days. Text files spread
across creation are no better than locked up in a database. Alternative
transforms to knit it all together into a user experience aren't obvious and
intuitive. But put all your content in one text file and just alternate between
markdown and YAML, and you've got something. Something new.

Well, technically not new. There must be other solutions out there. I couldn't
be the first to think of this. The "now moment" is not a precise thing. In the
now, I happen to have brought this realization to reality perhaps better than
other folks. I've toyed with such systems on and off for years, but now the
tools really are providing those sweet-spots to lean into.

Once I was enjoying the benefits of markdown on a literal daily basis through
switching my already existing 1-file-for-life journaling system to markdown and
started using parsed headline fields at the top of daily entries as data-fields
and discovered YAML, it clicked. I was already mixing YAML and text files this
way with Jekyll front matter. It makes sense. It works. It reduces the friction
of all that XML/JSON stuff and it uses conventions that are getting adopted
across all static site generators. It only made sense to put it all in 1 file
and use the same conventions for the same data-fields across all files. Thus,
YAMLchop was born.

Ideas are struggling and competing with each other and the circumstances of
your life to penetrate into your psyche and perchance be noticed, and perchance
be paid attention to, and perchance to be captured, and perchance to be
expressed, acted upon and actualized, realized, or otherwise made a more
meaningful part of our existence.

Billion dollar ideas rain down on our heads every day. All of us. It's the
proverbial mana from the sky. But we're too busy to notice. We're too wrapped
up in the inspiration-blocking mechanics of the daily grind.

Journaling is a good start. Journaling at least makes you notice this
eventually, and over time maybe come to make more deliberate decisions. But
journaling is an undisciplined and unstructured endeavor for most, especially
if you're starting out with the blank page of a text file. And so proprietary
journaling tools are chosen which lock-up your very thoughts on platforms
destined to go away. Reset! Reset, reset, reset! It's a never-ending cycle
that's desired by those who are thinking deliberately and have decided it's
better that the masses not, least they lose their tenuous grip on power.

So the best thing you can do for yourself, up there with "general" education,
and arguably even much better, is to journal into a plain text file,
superimposing some lightweight, sensible and intuitive structure with YAML and
markdown. And then, when you're ready, you can transform that into something
else. Publish it as a site the way I'm doing. Use it like memory. Or let a
large language model learn from it for whatever purpose you can imagine.


















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/git-rebase-i-root-vs-git-init-anew/">`git rebase -i --root` vs. `git init` anew</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/journaling/'>Journaling</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/science/'>Science</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/javascript/'>JavaScript</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/json/'>JSON</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/wordpress/'>WordPress</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/jekyll/'>Jekyll</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/web-development/'>Web Development</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/yaml/'>YAML</a></h4></li></ul>