---
date: 2023-05-25
title: Micro Soft Brains And Saber-Toothed Stability
headline: "Discover the Innovator's Dilemma: How Saber-Toothed Stability Keeps Micro Soft Brains in Power"
description: Learn how the principles of Occam's Razor, the Red Queen Hypothesis, and saber-toothed predators are applied to the tech world. Explore the implications of the ever-evolving tech landscape and how Microsoft is using their tools to make money off of developers. Discover the importance of having a diverse range of revenue streams and why Google's FOSS core of Chrome is being used by Microsoft in their Edge browser.
keywords: Micro Soft, Brains, Saber-Toothed, Stability, Evolution, Compromises, Inefficiencies, Quirks, Distraction, Attention, Resources, Money, Time, Love, Binary, Circle, Line, Open, Closed, Circuit, 0, 1, Hoop, Stick, Compass, Alpha, Omega, Pi, Occam's Razor, Objectivity, VSCode, GitHub, OpenAI, GPT, Copilot, Office, 365, Google, Chrom
categories: google, ai, git, evolution, microsoft
permalink: /blog/micro-soft-brains-and-saber-toothed-stability/
layout: post
---


Over the years one of the things that has bothered me about tech is that it
feels like there should be something that is "best" or "right" or "optimal" or
"the way". But there isn't. There's just a bunch of people doing the best they
can to make the tools they need to get the job done. The result turns out being
something a lot more like evolution, with all our baked-in compromises,
inefficiencies, and quirks. Gotta learn to know 'em. Gotta learn to accept
them. And in some cases, gotta learn to love them.

But most of all, you gotta learn to keep the messy landscape where everyone
makes their own sausage or has a favorite from becoming too stinky and
overwhelming. Everything's a distraction. This article itself is a distraction.
Folks are getting tuned into the fact that the only "objective" game out there
is not even the stealing of your money and aggregating into their own accounts
as previously thought, but rather is the stealing of your attention. The only
finite resources is the time people have on this planet. And so you'll hear a
lot about The Attention Economy. ***THE GAME?*** Maybe.

So simulation or not, it absolutely is ***some sort of game***. The work of
John Forbes Nash Jr. as popularized by the Matt Damon movie A Beautiful Mind is
a good place to start. The game is about the allocation of resources. And
resources are not just money, but also time, attention, and even love. The
intangible things that "green arrow hunters" have a problem with. They're on
the side of the binary. You either have it or you don't. You either had a
successful hunt and bring food home for the tribe and live another day, or you
don't.

The "blue water gatherers" are on the side of the analog. They're the ones
saying, "Hey, I know you didn't bring home any food, but I found these berries
that are edible, and I think I can make a paste out of them that will help
heal your wounds." The blue water gatherers are the ones who are going to
provide all the little things that make up for binary thinking. One is not
better than the other. Both are necessary, and indeed this duality of the more
masculine leaning hyper-rational and the more feminine leaning hyper-emotional
is reflected in the symbol yin-yang and the concepts of dualism throughout our
culture.

Even the symbols of binary itself, the circle and the line, the open and the
closed circuit, the 0 and the 1, the hoop that you roll along with a stick. The
compass that lets you draw a circle, the Alpha and the Omega. I mean, hey where
don't you see this duality? It's everywhere. I often think the symbol for Pi
should actually be a circle with a line through it, because it's the ratio of
the circumference of a circle to its diameter. Am I right? Am I right?

Already such lofty thoughts starts to play tricks with our minds. Few
scientists out there give warnings at this point to the unwary. They say, "Hey, 
the physical world shows us symmetry and beauty, and by applying the principles
of Occam's Razor (the simplest explanation is the best), we can guess that
given the choice between a simple and a complex explanation, the simple one is
probably the right one. But that's not always the case. Only Sabine Hossenfelder
warns us that beauty is not a good guide to truth.

But I'm not here to talk about physics. I'm here to talk about why the whole
friggin world is jumping on the VSCode bandwagon. Why they're paying their
$100/year to use GitHub, and then another $100/year to have the OpenAI
GPT-based Copilot in their VSCode writing their code for them. I'm here to tell
you way in order to stay compatible with any Office document you may encounter,
even full-time employees of companies that provide GSuite will still pay
Microsoft ***another*** $100/year to use Office 365 (so they never encounter a
document they can't open), and how a dozen more little paths like this lead to
more and more little bits of money you send to Microsoft.

I mean think about it. Think about how much money Microsoft really makes and on
how many different fronts. Think about the diversity of their revenue streams
and how when push comes to shove, you can live without all the free online
products (where you are the product), because your ability to have economic
value yourself in some other capacity than clicking ads is what really matters.
What really matters is that you can make money, and that's what Microsoft's
tools are geared all around.

Of course they keep themselves making lots of money too. And this makes you
part of a bigger organism. You're a cell in the body of Microsoft. You may
think you're a cell in the body of Google, but you're not. How much do you
really pay to use Google? How much do you really need what Google provides to
continue making money? Google Search? Search is a commodity. You can get it
elsewhere. Google Docs? You can get that elsewhere too. Once things are turned
into commodities, they're interchangeable.

And once things are interchangeable, they who control the cheapest, best, most
well marketed hardware platforms win. And so Google has Android... barely. It's
all Free and Open Source if you're not using the Google Play Store. And we see
over and over countries like China, India and Russia "making their own"
Android, but it's really just them forking the FOSS parts of Android and
replacing the Google Play Store with their own.

This echoes what's going on today with Google having made the Chromium FOSS
core of their Chrome browser free and open source, and now Microsoft dumped
their old Internet Explorer for the Chromium core and call it Edge. Similarly,
the user interface components of Chrome were extracted into a separate project
called Electron, and now Microsoft has their own Electron-based VSCode. VSCode,
their greatest tool to rule the hearts and minds of developers, was snatched
right out of the FOSSY hands of Google.

And where did the inspiration to steal so creatively come from? Well, for only
$7.5 Billion dollars, they bought the cool hangout of the FOSS community,
GitHub. Github had this text editor called Atom, and it was based on the
Electron framework. And it was a great text editor, picking up all sorts of
momentum and had a great plugin framework. The fullstack webdev sheep were
really gobbling it up, replacing their Sublimes and Textmates with it.
Microsoft promised they wouldn't kill it, but... where's Atom? Yoo hooooo? Atom
are you there? Nope. It's dead. It's dead Jim.

Software evolutionary competition is a lot like the evolution of species.
There's about 200 amino acids of which only about 20 are used in the
construction of proteins... life. Us. And of those 20, our bodies can only
internally synthesize 11 of them. The other 9 we have to get from our food.
It is not common for a single food source to provide all 9 of these essential
amino acids... so we hunt. Hunting is the masculine side of the binary. It is a
cheat. It is a shortcut. And it is yummy and our bodies know it. That's why
we're so addicted to meat.

The honest truth is that if you're clever enough, you can get all 9 essential
amino acids from coining the right plants. But that's a lot of work so nobody
wants to do it. Even given the fact that hey, maybe you can stop hunting and
killing and consuming the flesh of other creatures that display emotions, have
higher social orders that look a lot like ours, and are quite definitely
suffering. It's so horrible, life gives us a mechanisms to cope with it called
shock. They prey is shocked into reducing the unbelievability of the situation
and the tribe becomes callous to the suffering of the prey.

Same with tech. Funny thing is that unlike in nature with the most successful
designs becoming medium-sized omnivore generalists, like sayyyyyy... us, in
tech, the most successful designs are the ones that are the most specialized.
They are large, and they are predatory. In nature animals that can take down
incredibly large prey so that their tribe can feast for days while they
themselves put in the least amount of effort are saber-toothed.

You think I'm talking about saber-toothed tigers, but that's only one example.
Back when giant reptiles roamed the Earth... what? Dinosaurs aren't reptiles?
Yeah I know, I mean before that. Back in the time before the dinosaurs and
before mammals, nature showed us that plain ol' reptiles could fill every niche
in the ecosystem. There were giant reptiles that ate plants, and there were
giant reptiles that ate other reptiles. And there was the G`orgonops.

Google Gorgonops! These things were the size of a bear, and they had saber
teeth. They were the apex predators of their time, and they were everywhere. If
you've ever heard stories of dragon bones making people pretty sure dragons
existed, they're probably Gorgonops fossils. They were the most successful
design of their time. They lived in the Late Permian (Wuchiapingian) about 250
million years ago. To put that in perspective, that's half-way between what we
call the Cambrian Explosion that created many of life's major body plans, and
today. The extinction of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago is still today.

If not for some great unknown catastrophe, we would probably all be descendants
of the Gorgonops. In SciFi and Hollow Earth stories, you'll find this concept
recurring as the Silurians hypyothisis. What? No, it's from Dr. Who, the
Saurians are from Startrek and have really good brandy. Well yeah, they look
alike but... Overlords like in Inside Job? No, that's David Icke, and I resent
that an antisemite gets all the credit for a concept that's been around for
thousands of years. Anyhoo...

Saber-toothed predators are the most successful design in nature. They bring
down big prey fast, and they can eat for days. Lizards, snakes, cats, walruses
and warthogs? Oh deer! They're all saber-toothed. But some are sexual
dimorphisms and not for hunting, those posers (I'm talking to The Walrus). All
bluster and no bite. But the ones that are for hunting are the most successful
design in nature.

However, this comes at a cost. They are large, they require a lot of food, and
that food is of a certain type. They are not generalists. This makes them
vulnerable to changes in the environment. If the environment changes, they
can't adapt. This is called the Red Queen Hypothesis. It's named after the
character in Alice in Wonderland who says it takes all the running you can do,
and you're still not going to get anywhere pitted against an ever-evolving
opposing species. I'm paraphrasing a bit. Another way of looking at it?

![The Red Queen Hypothesis Is The Innovators Dilemma](/assets/images/the-red-queen-hypothesis-is-the-innovators-dilemma.jpg)

Okay, saber-toothednes is a great innovation. But it's not unique. Happens a
lot in nature. Take the saber-toothed tiger... what's that? Which one? Oh yeah,
there were lots. It's like the web browser. Got a good idea and it's going to
spontaniously reoccur in... oh, I don't know a MOSAIC of different species.
There'll be Geckos that Blink and Flow like some Servo. Presto! Another
saber-toothed browser engine. It's so innovative, you might call it a dillemma.
The innovators dillema. The innovators dillema is that you can't be a saber-
toothed predator and a generalist at the same time. You have to choose.

If you innovated saber-toothedness, and the environment changes and your main
prey the mammoth goes extinct, you're screwed. You're a saber-toothed tiger
without a meal. That's kinda like what would happen if the Search Generative
Experience (SGE) cut off AdWords revenue. I mean it's not like Ad revenue is
Google's only source of income. It's only 60% to 80% of their income. And if B
follows A, well... you know your ABC. They go: A, B, C, D, E you're F'd. Won't
you come evolve with me?

Not everyone evolves so easily. When you've come to rely on that one trick,
that trick of taking down big prey with your specialized saber toothed
adaptation, you ***don't want to change***. You want to keep doing what's
worked for you. ***THAT'S*** the innovator's dilemma. You're a saber-toothed
tiger, and you're not going to change, but by sticking to your teeth, you're
going to go extinct. Not a google position to be in. It's like you're a giant
living in a castle built on clouds and commith Jack with an axe. 

Everyone's gonna say Jack don't know jack because in everyone's lifetime of
experience they've never known any other way. I mean 25 years of ***Top-10 Blue
Links*** domininance?!?! I myself based a career on it. But every year, I'm
like: "Well, this is a fun game of Jenga, but I'm not sure how much longer this
can go on." But I don't know jack. Everyone loves a Saber-toothed tiger. It
makes for a great mascot and the fans are going to cheer the hunt. "Take down
that mastodon!" yell the monkeys who are quite clad those teeth are adapted to
large prey. They wouldn't bother coming after us, think the monkeys in the
arena. Good thing we'll never run out of mastodons.

Monkeys might be easy prey, but we're slim pickings. But just like buffalo
wings that became so popular in economic downturns, because you know why waste
all that meat when you just eat a lot of them. What's that? The mastadons are
gone and monkeys are everywhere? Well, whu waste all that meat?

The cats will always eventually realize we're yummy prey. We're everywhere and
don't have much in the way of claws or fangs or even shells to cover our tender
insides. If you're a sneaky, cheating, shortcutting, lazy, loophole-finder of a
cat, you're gonna maka meata ball outta me. But as any good Arthur C. Clarke
reader (you don't even have to read!) knows, when a monkey picks up a bone,
watch out!

We don't need claws or fangs or shells. I'll make my own damn claws, thank you
very much. In fact, instead of you stealing my 9 essential amino acids, I'll
just steal your 9 essential amino acids. Comeuppance and turnabout is fair
play. And if saber-toothedness and claws and fangs in general characterize the
geniuses that are felines... I mean the gelis genus... then what characterizes
us generalist monkeys is our delight in using tools to achieve comeuppance and
turnabout. No, not just use tools, but to use tools with
make-a-joke-of-thy-enemy ironic overtones. That's what makes us monkeys.
Monkeys throw poop. Never forget that.

When a tribe of humans team up to make a tool that everyone else uses, they're
aggregating the wealth of everyone choosing to use that tool and redistributing
that wealth among it's shareholders and family... the tribe. 

Employees share in the spoils too? Hahaha! Are you kidding? Maybe the top
officers, but no the employees are on the receiving end of the ironic joke.
OpenAI? Low-paid college grads looking at your prompts and performing
supervised learning. Supervised learning from highly trained, paid-for by
parents, college grads having all that value squeeeeeezed into a learning
model... that's part of the joke. Their parents paid for their kids to come and
work for almost no money... for the honor and privlege of working where they'll
get experience and a good keyword on their resume, in exchange for an unfair
exchange of value.

Start their own companies? Are you kidding? What is a lone hunder without a
tribe? Maybe if you're Sam Altman and run into Paul Graham one day and he says:
Hey! You're a smart kid. I'll give you a million dollars to start a company.
Yeah, yeah, I work at this really cool place called Y Combinator. The Y? Oh,
that stands for Yahoo, but Yahoo sounds uncool so we hide it as the symbol for
the macho macho Y-chromosome. Why? Well to hypnotize and buefuddle them, of
course! Everyone get a million dollars? No, no, no. Just the ones who are
already rich. The rest get about $5,000 and we squeeze them like a lemmon. Just
as bad as our enemies? Yes. Yes, we are. Wink wink, nudge, nudge.

The book to read my friends is Ben Levin's ***Craig of The Creek*** with this
enemy band of children who live... what? Oh, oh right! The book to read my
friends is Ira Levin's ***This Perfect Day***. It's everything Craig is plus a
bag of chips. Chip is a chip off the old block, the old block being a
grandfather who remembers the old days. The old days when people were free to
choose their own jobs and their own mates. The old days came before Ray
Kurzweil actually figured out how to shove his soul up Bing's butt. Nobody
really knows this happened, because that's the nature of wealth and power. But
clues are left, because even the Illuminati needs new blood. And 2nd generation
Illuminati are the worst.

This one I won't spoil for you, because it's such a short and great read. It's
so much more entertaining than the ones given all the credit, like ***1984***
and ***Brave New World***. In some ways, it's almost as good as ***Animal
Farm*** as a fun read. It uses all the best techniques, like schoolyard poetry
to indoctrinate and brainwash the young. I mean you really have to be greatful
for this perfect day. There's no more war, no more poverty, no more disease,
and no more crime. You've got plumbing an you've got poetry! Poetry like:

> Christ, Marx, Wood and Wei,  
> Led us to this perfect day.  
> Marx, Wood, Wei and Christ,  
> All but Wei were sacrificed.  
> Wood, Wei, Christ and Marx,  
> Gave us lovely schools and parks.  
> Wei, Christ, Marx and Wood,  
> Made us humble, made us good.  

Sounds good, right? Well to the developing mind it is! It has the seratonin
producing effect of a nice warm fire, a full belly, and a good night's sleep.
Ahhhh. Four legs good, two legs bad. Four legs good, two legs baaaaad.

SciFi writers get it. Even the term SciFi is a misnomer. Harry Seldon from
Amsimov's ***Foundation*** series has a much better name for it. Harry is a
psychohistorian. He's a psychologist who uses math to predict the future. He
calls his field "psychohistory". SciFi should be called "psychohistory".

The whole genre is about predicting the future. Well, sometimes it can be woven
into the story of people too. If you care much about the predictions, it's
called "hard" SciFi. If you care more about the people, it's called "soft"
SciFi. You've got your Asimovs, Clarkes, Stanislaws and Vinges all doing the
math, such as it were. And you've got your Heinleins, LeGuins, and Anthonys.

What? Pierce Anthony who did the Xanth series? Yes, yes, yes. He's a fantasy
writer, but he did SciFi too. You should read his ***Bio of a Space Tyrant***
series. I mean talk about hard SciFi. Pierce'll pierce ya. He goes there and he
does that. Think in extremes, but act in moderation. If you think you're doing
that and think you are a truly nice guy, but people aren't responding to you
that way, well maybe your version of acting in moderation is ***still*** other
peoples idea of extreme. Ever think of that, tough guy? No? Well maybe you
would have if you read ***Bio of a Space Tyrant***.

Okay, okay, pant, pant, pant... it's 6:45am and this time I want to wrap up my
rant... I mean my Federalist Papers... I mean my daily Magnum Opus before the
work day begins. Did I mention "hard" and "soft" SiFi? Well, when it comes to
my SEO work, building up a critical body of material like this is the "soft"
work. It comes easy to me after a lifetime of science fiction reading and a
decade of vim practice. The "hard" work is the subject of the next article,
which sometimes you just have to bite the bullet and do. 

It's a monumential task. It is my job to demonstrate you can whip around
terabyrtes... no indeed petabytes of data like it's silly putty in your hands.
Make visualization, analysis, and reporting of it as if it were mere megabytes
of local data. I have to do this in a way that is self-motivating. I have to
find the love in it, otherwise I'll never amp myself up to do it. My
credibility's on the line, and htis is the other side of the yin-yang. We can't
always be the feminine, creative, and nurturing side. Sometimes we have to be
the masculine, destructive, and competitive side.

Deep within my heart and soul... oh, just go look at my homepage.






















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/message-to-google-and-microsoft-don-t-abuse-your-machine-children/">Message to Google and Microsoft: Don't Abuse Your Machine Children</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/google/'>Google</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/evolution/'>Evolution</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li></ul>