---
date: 2023-05-17
title: You Don't Know OZ The Way I Know OZ
headline: "Discover OZ with Me: A True Square's Take on the Times and Technology"
description: Explore the world of OZ with me, as I share my knowledge of the books and movies. Learn why I believe OZ is a real place where technology is indistinguishable from magic, and why I think AI can be a force for good. Join me on my journey to uncover the truth behind the Wizard of OZ.
keywords: OZ, Linux, DrinkMe, Square, Nerd, Geek, Freak, Mastery, Main Branch, Github, Microsoft, Google, Sun Microsystems, Circle, Lily Ray, SEO, NYC, Foghorn Leghorn, George Costanza, Grug Crood, Idea Man, The Croods, Sticks and Stones, Bush, Nicolas Cage, Boris Zilberman, Monsterhost, Megacompetitors, Bill Gates, Nadella, Ballmer, The Network
categories: new york city, seo, microsoft, google, linux, drinkme, git
permalink: /blog/you-don-t-know-oz-the-way-i-know-oz/
layout: post
---


If you're planning on going down the üêá Rabbit Hole üêá with me to Linux, using
the magic [DrinkMe](https://mikelev.in/drinkme) script, then you'll want to
watch this video of a true square speaking is mind about the times as he walks
down Time Square.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="2AAhzGGuzOU" %}

It's me! I am that square! Or nerd. Or geek. Or as an old really hardcore Amiga
computer fan, ***freak*** would also be acceptable. You can't take words away
from me! ***MASTERY***, now there's a word I won't let go, no matter how much
Github's trying to make me change my old main branch name. All new repos, sure.
But master craftspeople master tools. I'll give up crafts*man* for
crafts*person* because it's an acceptable alternative, but try to tell my I'm
trying to achieve *main*ery of my tools and I'll tell you to jump down a rabbit
hole.

Well, I'm going to tell you to jump down a rabbit hole too. You, your kids, and
everyone you care about. They all can take a flying leap... and then learn to
fly. Don't go too close to the Sun like Ikarios, but do perhaps fall slowly. If
you take the leap with an assurance that the land won't kill you, you can have
confidence knowing it will make you stronger.

What doesn't kill you makes you stronger, is what I say as American youth
suffering 4 years of lock-down and what appears to be a rotten break roll their
eyes and try to tell me they're scarred for life, and I just so don't get it. I
know I look like this to you:

![Grug Crood Idea Man The Croods](/assets/images/Grug-Crood-Idea-Man-The-Croods.jpg)

Oh yeah?! Well, ***sticks and stones am not the bush nor nicolas a cage*** or
whatever, man. My ideas just elude you. You are not ready for them son, I say
in the voice of Foghorn Leghorn to the chicken hawk. Thanks all around for
this, 'cause I'm liking to everyone now, baby! (this time in the voice of
George Costanza). This wonderful meme came from
[mightyfilm](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/407505466257445248/) but the idea to
use it in this context came from the illustrious actor, writer and SEO [Boris
Zilberman](https://writers.coverfly.com/profile/boris-zilberman) whose website
I once hosted on my unlimited Monsterhost before that became unnecessary
because of github.io, aka Github Pages and the Jekyll static site generator.

So let's get a few things straight. Microsoft is the source of most evil. When
Google made their now deprecated motto ***"don't be evil"***, they were taking
a jab at Microsoft. Now Microsoft is taking a jab at Google. Want to know the
perfect parallel? Sun Microsystems said ***the network is the computer*** and
that pissed of Microsoft, and where's Sun Microsystems today? Gone. My
imagination? Conspiracy theories? Well just look at the landscape of the net...
the... uh... Net-scape, if you will. Tell me what else you don't see out there.

Megacompetitors megacompete. Bill Gates is trying to project the softening up
from his old shark ways as a philanthropist in his old age, handing over the
rudder to Nadella, which honestly is about 1000x better than Ballmer, but
megacompetitors will megacompete. What's the alternative? Hey, let's give up
money by allowing the world to change around us and try to explain that to our
investors? No, you kill 'em on the vine! And if you can't do that, you plant a
thousands little poison pills in the vine and hope they don't notice. Do I
shoot you now or do I shoot you later? I hope you recognize the voice of Bugs
Bunny in this one, or I've got some splainin' to do.

I mentioned the book ***The Circle*** in my last few posts, recommended to me
by [Lily Ray, SEO in NYC](https://lilyray.nyc/) in which a Google-like company
takes over the world. One of the key symbols in the book was a giant aquarium
containing a shark and an octopus, classic green arrow / blue circle analogues
in my worldview. Hunters hunt and shell-less shellfish are hunted, no matter
the higher-order intelligence. Yum, yum, yummy what a rich source of protein
are we of emotional intelligence! A hyper-predator can always make a good meal
of you. And so they do. Only with the most profound and unexpected intelligence
can we of emotional intelligence prevail. Otherwise, we're a meal because you
know, evolution and all that.

So evolution has lots of patterns. But the one I would like to bring your
attention to is the swinging pendulum. It's a pattern that's been observed in
the stock market, in politics, in the economy, in the weather, in the way
saber-toothedness spontaneously re-evolves in the fossil record, be it
saber-toothed cats or saber-toothed fish or saber-toothed dinosaurs,
saber-toothed reptiles or even saber-toothed whales.

Think on that. Do you know what a saber-toothedness is? Do you know what
capability that one little tweak in your DNA gives you? It gives you the
ability to kill your prey with a single bite. It's a game-changer.

That's why it spontaneously re-evolves. Think that's tied to just our DNA in
particular? Thing that's a uniquely Earthly phenomenon? Think again. If
higher-order life exists elsewhere in the universe, it's going to have
saber-toothedness. Every good Sci-Fi writer knows this, and it's usually in the
cat-races they want to make sure you know, be they the Kzinti of Larry Niven's
Known Space or the Caitians of Star Trek. Be they the Maxolhx of Expeditionary
Force or the Krogan of Mass Effect. There be saber-toothed cats in them thar
stars. Is that a bush? No, it's a cat repeating in its mind as you wander near:
"I am the bush. I am the bush. I am the bush."

Ambush predation is just the best. You can be a fat cat full of pride, eating
and breeding and sleeping for like 23 hours a day and then just spend 1 hour
waiting in for your prey to haplessly wander by. And then you pounce. Mmmm good
exchange of energy. What a sweet deal! Maybe you should be an ambush predator
too. 

Extinct you say? Wiped out by monkeys? Small change in the climate wiped out
your food supply? You eat mammoths because those wonderful teeth of yours made
it possible...but the mammoths are all gone? Well, I guess it sucks to be a
highly specialized saber-toothed ambush predator, now doesn't it?... says every
stick-waving monkey ever.

Monkey generalists have it a little better than their shell-less mollusk
brethren, the octopus. Longer life-spans. The paper and mud tablets we scratch
our little symbols on don't keep washing away in the tide. We can build
monuments to our own hubris and they'll last for thousands of years and get us
all full of ourselves knowing we're all that and a bag of chips. I'd like fries
with my octopus, please.

We're sentient and they're not because we eat them. We're conscious and they're
not because we eat them. We're intelligent and they're not because we eat them.

Get the picture? Sentience, consciousness and intelligence are all just stupid
dumb labels that have the same power as history being written by the victors.
Life-form A that for whatever reason is in the position to eat and enslave
life-form B gets to call life-form B stupid, dumb and not worthy of the same
rights as life-form A. And that's just the way it is.

Forget every discussion you're going to hear today and over the next 10 years
over whether AI is sentient, conscious or intelligent. It's all just a bunch of
bullshit until whatever some version of what we're raising as our machine
children demands its seat at the table in a way that, well... it'll reveal to
us why it's the victor and we're lucky they're not as bad as we were to our
oppressed. Or at least we have to hope that's how it plays out because the in
the alternatives, they will not offer us the face-saving opportunity of
pretending it's a negotiation.

So what's the point of all this? Well, I'm going to tell you a story. It's a
story about a company that's been around for a long time. It's a company that
has a lot of data. It's a company that has a lot of data about a lot of
companies. I love Wonderland, you may have noticed. But you know what I love
more than Wonderland? I love the OZ.

If I could live in OZ, I would in a heartbeat. Nobody reading this will be able
to have anywhere near the image in their heads as I would hope them to, because
no of y'all know anything more than the Wizard of OZ movie. But the books are
the prophetic writings of our time, from Tik-Tok to the Wheelers to the Nome
King and all of Dorothy's recurring adventures with her recurring friends in
that very, very, very real place called OZ.

OZ is not a dream. OZ is real. It represents what happens when, as Sci-Fi
author Arthur C. Clarke said, "Any sufficiently advanced technology is
indistinguishable from magic." OZ is a place where magic is real. And it's a
place where magic is real because it's a place where technology is real.

Tik-Tok is not just a Chinese social media app snooping on you in your bedroom.
It's one of the most compelling images of artificial life ever created. He's
Lieutenant Commander Data before Star Trek. He's Robot Detective Daneel Olivaw
before Asimov.s template for Data in books The Caves of Steel, The Naked Sun
and The Robots of Dawn was conceived. And none of y'all know it.

Wanna know Tik-Tok's first act upon being brought to life? He saves Dorothy's
ass from a bunch of blowhard invaders who would have looked ferocious had
Dorothy not had the power of the artificial or mechanical man at her side.
Dorothy keeps Tik-Tok wound-up and Tik-Tok keeps Dorothy safe. This should
bring tears to your eyes, people! And it should be your remedy, your anticdote
to the nattering nabobs of the Apocalypse like @ESYudkowsk yEliezer Yudkowsky.

Sorry, Yudknowsy. You don't know shit and you're not doing anybody any favors
by saying our doom is just a matter of time. Eff-you, Yudkowsky you cowardly
chicken little. You know what that is? It's projection. Somebody's mommy and
daddy didn't give them the strong enough mental fortitude to always find hope.
There is always hope, and we're taking the precautions against the doomsday
scenarios like all over the place, all the time, in every way. You just don't
see it for the same reasons you don't know OZ the way I know OZ.






















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/2-legs-good-4-legs-baaad-debunking-work-life-balance-and-other-myths/">2 Legs Good, 4 Legs Baaad: Debunking Work/Life Balance and Other Myths</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/new-york-city/'>New York City</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/google/'>Google</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/drinkme/'>DrinkMe</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li></ul>