---
date: 2023-05-07
title: Infinite Spam Cannons And Their Antidotes
headline: Unlocking the Secrets of Infinite Spam Cannons and Their Antidotes
description: The advent of AI-generated content has created a new challenge for search engines to organize the infinite new glutton of information in a useful way. I discuss the need for us content producers to find ways to stand out from the 'infinite spam cannon' and offer solutions for optimizing our content to be recognized and rewarded by search engines.
keywords: SEO, Content, Production, GPT-3 API, Generative Transformers, Midjourney, ChatGPT, Linear vs. Exponential, Cosmic Inflation, Traveling Salesperson Problem, Google, Search Engine, Signal-to-Noise Ratio, Copilot, SimpleNote, AltaVista, Crawl-and-Index Model, Bandaids, Script Kiddie, AI, Virtual-Philosophers, Phase Space, Generative Trick, Paywalled Content
categories: ai, google, seo
permalink: /blog/infinite-spam-cannons-and-their-antidotes/
layout: post
---


I've been putting off stuff from work. It's because I haven't done the deep
thought-work necessary to support it. But now I have. I'm what you would call
long in the tooth in the field of SEO. If you don't know the expression long in
the tooth, it comes from horses. As horses age, their gums recede, making their
teeth look longer. Or was that rabbits who have teeth that grow continuously?

And so it is with this long-in-the-tooth view I look the long-in-the-tail
strategies of yore in SEO. Hold on for a wacky few paragraphs for me to delve
into the new world realities. We start out with something called an O-scale
problem. Or more specifically, O to the power of O. Follow along!

Whether or not cosmic inflation was real or not in the birth of our universe,
the concept of exponentially growing "O-scale" problems is a thing. You've
heard of linear vs. exponential? Well exponential isn't anything compared to an
exponential to the power of an exponential. The hockeystick-shaped curve of
inflation plotting say the traveling salesperson problem of every traveling
salesperson is... uh, quite big. It's not infinity, but it's a pretty big
haystack in which to find a Needle, and that's Google's new problem:

Organizing all the world's information so that it is useful and satisfies and
"makes happy" the user. Otherwise, you will not continue to be their product to
serve up to their actual customers, advertisers. You must remain happy for
Google to get and keep their actual customers, the lifeblood, main mission and
indeed actual purpose of any organization, for else it ceases to exist. 

Starting with the GPT-3 API made available to developers in 2020, the next
generation spam cannon made possible. If it wasn't clear then, it certainly was
by 2022 with generative transformers like Midjourney, ChatGPT and whatnot. This
equals a new exponential O-scale problem that breaks the original Google
problem statement. Few are acknowledging how this breaks the dumb old
crawl-and-index model. It would simply be to stresses and expensive to crawl an
index it all. 

The arms race has changed, and it's up to us content producers to figure out
how not merely to survive in this new landscape, but to be findable at all. I
mean like how do you not completely disappear when a script kiddie less expert
than you can appear 1000x more expert than you by just prompting an AI to make
or look that way? You're toast. 

Google is encountering practically infinite new content overnight and every
night. The new tech can keep 2 virtual-philosophers who don't really exist
taking ad nauseam to each other on a website with a steady flow of conversation
modeled on smart folks, with the output being passable enough to make sense and
fool folks. https://infiniteconversation.com/

Even non-AI-generated content like this as I type onto not even Copilot
assisted SimpleNote can find its audience anymore simply by virtue of existing
and genuinely being the best match for people interested in such content. Those
days are over, because of the signal-to-noise ratio. I'm in competition with so
much noise the signal is unlikely to ever be meritoriously recognized, offered
up, and over time promoted and stabilized to receive the amount share of
searcher-attention that could/should be coming it's way. 

The world is as different now after the infinite spam cannon of content
existing as it was 25 years ago before the rise of AltaVista and Google, when
crawl-and-index worked. There's plenty of bandaids that can be applies as the
infinite spam cannon goes through its power-on warmup phase. That's what we're
experiencing now. But give it 2 more years or so and it's going to be out of
hand. So what is Google, Microsoft, Baidu and every other search engine company
to do? And what does it mean for each of us, the individual users of search who
need and rely upon or every day?

Well the first thing is to make your own version of the infinite spam can on
better than anyone else's. The main problem with ChatGPT and Midjourney are
that they trained on the same base base of content for everyone using or. It
doesn't matter your prompting skills, the possibilities of output are the same
for you as anyone else using the system. The range of all possible outputs from
a system is called it's phase space. The phase space for you using ChatGPT or
Midjourney is the same phase space as anyone else using those systems, no
matter your prompts. 

So? Change your phase space! Train your infinite spam cannon generator on
paywalled proprietary data that nobody else has access too. Your own creative
product output might be a good start, but then you need to have the genuine
skills in the first place, and nobody using the infinite spam cannon wants
that. They're all the same shortcut takers and cheaters who used doorway page
generators in the early days of SEO who already had the ability to infinitely
"remix" source content into hundreds of thousands or millions of low-quality
pages. 

You need not create an infinite spam cannon of your own, but whatever you do
needs to be able to cut through it like a knife. Of all your other business
problems you're solving, foremost among them must always be why will your
content not get lost on the signal? You are on the infinite spam cannon game
like it or not, if the reason for generating content is for it to find an
audience. That means either exchanges between human beings link-trading, social
media and word of mouth style. Or it means search. If there's some 3rd way
other than publishing in a way where things can he found (search) or being
explicitly told by someone you know and trust (referral), let me know. 

So if you're not in the spam cannon-making game, you're contending with it. And
to contend with it through better and better promoting within the same phase
space has diminishing returns because that's precisely what everyone else is
doing.  

You must expand your phase space to be different from theirs. You must train
your own models with content-in that is qualitatively different than everyone
else, and that means beyond the free web crawl that OpenAI did in 2021 and
still leans on. It means training on paid-for, proprietary or otherwise
original content. And it still means publishing that content in a traditionally
SEO-optimized fashion so that whatever digests it in search of originality and
newness that will come to characterize high E-E-A-T, or whatever amorphous
marketing acronym Google uses next. 

In summary, use the same generative transformer models as your competitors to
optimize your own unique content. Do what you can to make your content at
sufficient scale so that the generative trick of GPT actually works for you as
well as it does on the common pre-trained models out there like ChatGPT. This
might mean acquiring exclusive training rights to large paywalled content
collections or other data that will improve and differentiate output. This
improves output must still be search optimized and made available as input to
Google and other search systems that should be intelligent enough to recognize
and reward this fact.





















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/simulation-hypothesis-or-not-is-a-false-dichotomy/">Simulation Hypothesis Or Not is a False Dichotomy</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/google/'>Google</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li></ul>