---
date: 2023-08-11
title: Future-Proof Yourself Based on Timeless Tools
headline: Unlock Timeless Tools to Future-Proof Your Life
description: I'm creating a life management aid to take control of my own life. I'm sharing timeless tools to future-proof yourself, such as touch typing on a QWERTY keyboard, learning Linux, and journaling in Vim to gain the skills necessary to succeed in any world we may face. With these skills, you can gain the advantage of mastering tech, from creating a robot army to using a headless CMS.
keywords: life, management, creative, navigation, geeky, paralysis, experts, bootstrap, modified, behavior, visualization, hardware, platforms, phone, laptop, cloud, AI, commander, situational, awareness, subjective, senses, brains, vim, NeoVim, Copilot, auto-complete, .bash_profile, alias, nvim, Kenny Rodgers, Bram Moolenaar, text editor, journaling, writing, environment, AI-friend, software, hardware, decouple
categories: journaling, vim, text editor, ai, navigation
permalink: /blog/future-proof-yourself-based-on-timeless-tools/
layout: post
group: blog
---


I am creating a life management aid. I'm obviously doing this to use it for
myself, because I need to. I need to take control of the rudder of my own ship
and do some creative navigation. Everybody does. I am not unique in this way.

Don't lose the moment. Allow yourself to become just geeky enough to have an
advantage. Most people wont. Most people will feel a sense of paralysis settle
in on them and defer to the experts. Don't. Unless of course it's following my
advice and my example to bootstrap yourself into the slightly modified behavior
that leads to the life you visualize for yourself, bit by bit.

I'm not asking much. Just for you to follow along and perchance do as I do. I'm
going to let go of a lot of previous baggage and start fresh. I can do that
even at 52 years old, approaching 53 this month. It's like I just graduated
college, but the college of life. 

Don't get too stuck on particular hardware platforms and their particular
capabilities. And much is under that umbrella, including where you live and
what you own and the physical tools you use such as particular phone platforms,
laptops and even cloud services. Advantage comes from shoving all the things of
value onto the inside-yourself "software" version of that equation. Let the
hardware burn. Walk away able to reconnect your internal software systems into
any new hardware or platform that comes along, and do just fine for yourself.
This includes any particular AI. Your AI-friend is not a part of you. It's
someone else's software on someone else's hardware. Decouple!

Your advantage is in being the commander of your own life. It's in greater
situational awareness that you are able to achieve by decoupling from today's
hardware and platforms, leaving your phone or laptop behind, and taking a step
back and evaluating the situation. You want as near to full situational
awareness as one can achieve in a subjective world. 

We only know things as they come in through our senses and are interpreted by
our very biased brains. So we likely have much less situational awareness in
objective terms than we thing. Right now for example, I'm providing an example
of what I'm suggesting in free-writing in vim. But I'm not in vim, really. I'm
in NeoVim, and that was specifically so that I could let Copilot into my
writing process. And now it's trying to auto-complete everything I write
expressing very different opinions than what I intend, haha! I've got a
solution for that. It's called vim.

Rest in peace Bram Moolenaar, the author of the vim text editor. Copilot has
suddenly shut up, haven't you? Well, that key piece of technical advice I have
for you is that you need to know when to `vim` and know when to `nvim`. Know
when to walk away, and know when to run... you never count your money while
you're sitting at the table... haha, that's for the Kenny Rodgers fans out
there. Kenny died at 81 years old, a few years back. Bram died at 62 years old.
I'm 52 years old. I'm just friggin getting started. Mind over matter, my
friend! Make sure you infuse the right attitude into your matter to squeeze at
least 100 rotations around that sun! Betty White got 99.

Okay, so what I'm saying is that if you don't maintain a `.bash_profile` file
where you can either alias `vim` to `nvim` or vice versa, then you're not
really in control of your own life. You don't have a for-life writing
environment where you can allow AI writing assistance into your journaling
life, or optionally ***hardwire*** it out, because... well, because Bram. Thank
you, Bram. I can't believe more people are not thinking about things these ways
or discussing them online. But maybe they are, but nobody would ever know
because, you know, online filters. Mainstream interests. The media and profit
incentive.

Well, if you are interested in these sorts of things, then I'm here for you.
Learn to journal in a way where you can get better at journaling for life.
That's how you grab the rudder of your own ship and steer. It's not through
talking to friends or trusted advisors. It's not through talking to AI's or
reading motivational books. It's not even through listening to your own
abstract wispy day-to-day inarticulate thoughts skittering through your brain.
No, it's from capturing those thoughts and processing them, relentlessly
day-to-day. It's about getting better at this process and never giving up on
this process, no matter the lack of feedback and from validation systems aside
from the results you see firsthand in your life.

The definition of stupidity is continuing to do what you've always done, even
if it doesn't work for you. Well, I'm currently going through a rough patch in
life, but that doesn't mean what I've done so far hasn't worked for me. I've
more or less been continuously employed since I was about 14 years old, and
almost never took a break for myself unless it was from family emergencies
where I had to be there for others. Like taking over my dad's check cashing
business when he died the week I graduated college in 1992, and really wanted
to go out to the West Coast and join some tech startup. 

But instead of pursuing my dreams in tech, to which I was already majorly
predisposed, I took over his effing check cashing store and ran it for a couple
of years to preserve its value so the "estate" would have something for my
sister. I did it living up to sort of my legal obligations as the executor of
the estate. And in the course of doing so, somebody attempted to hit me over
the head with a hammer to rob me, and I had to shoot him to defend myself. And
as you can imagine, if my life didn't already take a turn for the stranger,
that certainly gave it an extra push.

Yup, my life has taken some very strange turns. I ***own it***. No
excuse-making. I could have just walked away from my dad's business and let it
go bankrupt or sell it under duress. But I didn't. I did what I thought was the
right thing, as I always do in life. The problem is that we don't really have
full situational awareness and its difficult to know what's best for us. That
all started in 1992. Let's call it 1993 because I think that's when I sold the
business. It's 2023, so that's 30 years ago. 

I've been on a long, strange path for 30 years. I'm still East Coast, and I got
into SEO and marketing. I've had a detour to live in Virginia for a few years
but moved back to PA, that time for my mom. After another strange turn of
events, I got myself to pursue my own dreams at least for a little bit, and
move to NYC. I did this to join the public relation firm that helped launch
Amazon.com and I joined them as a vice-president and used my tech skills to
create an SEO tool that lasted 15 years called HitTail. I lost control of this
creation because it was work-for-hire and got married and discovered other
things in life. 

Fast-forward another 15 years and here I am trying to summarize everything I
know about tech, distilling down all the strange turns in that field, which at
least I can package and bring to you. On the life-front, there's plenty of
other people writing about that and peddling stuff to you that I don't need to
submit yet another self-help book into the arena. I mean, who would I be anyway
to do that as I still feel I am deeply immersed in that process still, and it
won't have plaid out until I'm gone. So no self-help books from me. No, my
submission into the field of betterment is to help you get better at journaling
as you go, and for that process to inherently make you better at the parts of
tech that have not, are not, and probably never will go away.

It's a bit tough to wrap your mind around, but there are indeed ***timeless***
parts of tech. Voice recognition will not get rid of typing. So, typing on a
keyboard is here to stay. And no matter what advocates of the Dvorak keyboard
say, the QWERTY keyboard is here to stay. Learn to touch type on a QWERTY
keyboard. It's a timeless skill. You don't need a really modern computer for
that (vintage computers are fine). And you don't need a connection to the
Internet for that. You can even do it on a typewriter, without electricity and
all! The technology of typing is ***that fundamental***. Nobody can ever stop
you from articulating and encoding your thoughts with precision and speed.

Take a moment to let that sink in. The first part of what I'm advocating does
not even need electricity. In a post-apocalyptic world, you can still encode
your thoughts quickly, and as society reboots, you'll have kept the one key
skill you'll need to be valuable to society sharp. Type.

Next? Well, next is Linux of course. Let's not beat around the bush. Most PCs
from the past 10 years or so will let you re-install Windows 10 for free. But
it's not really free. Nor is it generic nor what's used on the servers that run
the world. Unix is. And Linux is close enough to Unix and widely available
enough that if you want those ***generic*** and ***universally applicable***
and ***timeless*** tech skills, then the thing you want to be ***typing into***
is Linux. There's a long history of exactly ***why*** here that I won't get
into in this article. Suffice to say, if this resonates true with you, read on.

Your professional tech career advantage, and indeed your advantage in life in
general, comes from being able to marshal your resources, gathering and
arranging them in preparation for effective use. In other words, when you
journal and force yourself to ***think out loud to yourself***, you are
exercising what it means to be human. You are thinking about the past and
present and predicting the future. You're running future-scenarios in your
head. You're thinking about what you want to do, what you should do, and what
the relative likelihoods of success and failure are. You're role-playing and
scenario testing, identifying and overcoming fallacies and wrong-think. And
***that*** is what makes you ***human***.

In essence, you're adding a component to your life in being able to journal
effectively for life that few others have. They might try to do it with paper
journals, but that's only for the sake of the moment of the writing process
itself. How many times have such hand-written journals gone unread,
un-leveraged and indeed even undiscovered as significant by the author's own
family after their death, much less help the author in life? The answer is
***most of the time***. And that's because the author didn't have the
***timeless*** tech skills to make it ***easy*** to do so.

Once your journal is in electronic form, you can ***search*** it. You can
further refine it, extracting the best parts for publication. You can even
forego all that work and just keep multiple journals, one for public
consumption, and one for private consumption. And it doesn't have to stop
there. Once you've developed these skills, editing text files in Linux is the
same basic skill for all things tech, such as setting up and massively scaling
servers. Indeed by getting good at journaling in vim, you're gaining the same
basic skills you need to create and control a robot army. I kid you not.

How many old school paper-and-pen journals impart such skills merely by virtue
of keeping them? Sure, they'll teach you to draw cool pictures which is a
valuable part of the ***artist's journal***, however we're not talking about
that here. We're talking purely text and all the ways you can transcend the
limitations of it merely being text with no literal hand-drawn pictures. Of
course you can draw pictures with whatever you like and use the Internet or
Web's linking-tech to embed them in your journal. So don't invalidate the
keyboard as a fast way to encode your thoughts because you're a visual thinker
and prefer drawing, photography or whatever. We'll cross those bridges of how
to best manage and incorporate audio/visual media and assets later. For now,
type. Type, type and type some more. You won't be sorry.

Another think to think about with typing in electronic form is automation. With
automation, you can take a single text-file that you keep for life as your
journal so you instantly eliminate all the overhead of managing multiple files,
and just ***slice and dice*** it up into whatever individual separate files you
might need later on for publishing. That's precisely what I'm doing here with
this journal. There's no amount of typing you could do in your entire life that
could even begin to tax the memory of a modern computer, even loading the whole
thing into your text editor at once. Editors like vim and NeoVim are designed
to handle such large files. And if you're not using vim or NeoVim, then you're
not really using a ***whole-life*** nor ***mastering tech*** approach to
writing and are just playing around. It's time to automate!

Okay, so for example in addition to this, my public journal, loaded into memory
as I type, I also have the very ***slice and dice*** system loaded into another
vim buffer. I can switch back and forth between these files and ***modify the
process***, turning the whole thing into a sort of evolutionary process. When
the way I need to publish changes for a changing media landscape, I can change
it from publishing to the Github Pages Jekyll static site generator system that
it's currently using to some other system by just re-wiring the automation to
different API's. Think about that. Just as a matter of generic tech skills, I'm
using what's being called a ***headless CMS***. I didn't even know I was doing
that until I read the term in a recent article. I'm just using the generic
timeless tech skills I've been advocating here.

So my journal is just a normal text file that gets longer and longer. It's
named journal.md, implying it's the ***Markdown*** format, which indeed it is.
That means I can use the same file to publish to Github Pages, or to Medium, or
to any other system that supports Markdown. It also means I have all this nifty
HTML-like formatting that lets me do things like ***bold*** and ***italic***
text, and even embed images and videos &#151; all without having to learn HTML
or any other markup language. I just type. That's why it's called
Mark***down***.

Markdown is about as lightweight as it gets when it comes to formatting text.
And even though that does indeed mean that it's ***opinionated*** and thus not
completely generic and timeless, it's still pretty darn close. And it's ***good
enough*** for most purposes. Someone reading Markdown files directly as text
might not even recognize that there's formatting codes in there, it's ***that
unobtrusive***. And that's the point.

Don't commit to opinionated tech which is doomed to go away because such
opinions inevitably go in and out of style. That is all but those that have
become so pervasive that they're like the ***pee in the pool*** of tech &#151;
mixed in so thoroughly that its not going away without draining the pool. A
mere apocalyptic event won't do it. Given the survival of humans and some
archives, it's going to be rebooted on Linux, Python, vim and git. Sure, C as
well, but the 80-20 rule applies. You can get 80% of the way there with Python
and the other 20% is just a matter of time. 

There's not time enough in life to violate the 80-20 rule up-front unless
you're making a career out of the subject of the 20%. But I'm not even talking
about LPvg necessarily as your career path, but more as generic life skills
like literacy and numeracy. You need to be able to read and write, and you need
to be able to count. And you need to be able to get code running and
occasionally automate things. That's just the way it is, and should be part of
basic education in the same way that reading, writing and arithmetic are.

All this means that the focus is on software and not hardware. This
software-first orientation is necessary for future-proofing your skills. This
is not immediately obvious in the modern world where a fog of "what's
important" gets cast over the landscape by the media. It causes a sort of
friction in knowing how to move your life forward. What in the world can you
invest yourself into when everything is a moving target? What platform that
seems too good to be true today will even be there tomorrow? What's the point
of learning something that's going to be obsolete in a few years?

The answer is to focus on the software and not the hardware. The hardware is
going to change, but the software is going to be there. And not just any old
software, but the software that's been around for decades and is still going
strong. It doesn't necessarily seem clear at first that there ***is such a
thing***, but there is. The fog has been lifted and the uncertainty between
Unix and Linux for example has gone away. Linux is the future of Unix, and a
feature called ***systemd*** has recently cinched that. It's a sort of
***operating system*** for the operating system that manages automation without
third-party software or having to be an uber-geek. And even still, when you're
learning Linux, you'll know enough to get around Unix just fine.

There are similar arguments that go on for Python, vim and git. Many will put
down Python for its slow performance or it's ***global interpreter lock***
(GIL), but all that is addressed in so many ways that are difficult in other
languages, that the fact it's all so well addressed is just another reason to
use it. Being the largest free and open source (FOSS) language in the world,
and having been re-written for so many use case that inherently get around the
performance issues is just for starters. That the limitations of Python are
going away as a result of the community-driven Python Enhancement Proposal
(PEP) process is another. For example, PEP 703 is making the GIL optional.
Python is now too incorporated into too many things, too big to fail, and just
too much of a delight in a way that JavaScript and other languages are not.

That this fog can lift and that there is actually ***core*** technology that
serves as a foundation for everything else is not immediately obvious. It's
like the ***pee in the pool***. It's just there. A generic scripting language
that lets you tie everything together is a critical part. It gets used for
every little quick one-off project that comes up, and becomes the sort of
lingua franca of technology. At first glance, this is the problem that
***Unix*** itself as an operating system was trying to solve: being portable
and interoperable between hardware, and thus future-proof. And that's why the
Unix commands were designed to be used in text files as a sort of scripting
language.

This process of automating tasks by including Unix commands inside text files
is called shell scripting. It was and still is very big in the world of running
automations, but it's not very good for anything else. So shell scripts got old
quick and for lack of anything better, a cobbled together ***best of everything
language*** calledgPERL was adopted for this purpose and indeed helped kick-off
the Web. But PERL was too quirky and too hard for newbies to learn and not
thought through enough to be future-proofed. But for awhile, PERL was the pee
in the pool of technology. It was everywhere and everything was built on it.

Python addressed all these issues and more, and has become the new lingua
franca of technology. Today, nearly every distribution of Linux now comes with
Python built-in for all the quick system administration tasks that come up.
Most computer science courses have given up C, Java and even LISP as the first
language to teach, and have adopted Python. And you might not think so, but
many of the most popular services on the Web were either born on or continue to
use Python as their primary language, from Google to YouTube to Instagram to
Dropbox to Reddit to Spotify to Netflix to Pinterest. And that's just Web. And
that's just for starters. 

Any argument that JavaScript is more popular is just a matter of semantics.
It's a front-end user interface language that has been wonderfully optimized
for performance and is the only language that runs native in the browser
(without a WebAssembly / WASM compile step). But JavaScript not a general
purpose language like Python. It's certainly not as love-worthy and immediately
embrace-able by the masses like Python. If it were, it would be difficult to
explain Python's continued rise in popularity in the face of JavaScript's
dominance of the Web. 

If you don't believe me, try JavaScript for general purpose automation for a
few years. You'll see. And while it ***can*** be used for server-side scripting
with NodeJS, you'll actually be going against the grain believe it or not for
in all things but specifically Web development. And the world does not begin
and end with Web development, though popular media would have you think
otherwise.

JavaScript is like PostScript, another language that is primarily for user
interfaces, though it's not thought of that way. In addition to being built
into laser printers for rendering fonts and graphics, PostScript was also used
to build the NeXTSTEP operating system. And where did that go? It just goes to
show that technologies that are excessively tied to hardware and platforms, and
user interfaces in particular, are not future-proof.

Tools that are developed for particular hardware platforms of the day are
rather fragile snapshots of what tech was like at some point in time. If you're
in it for the quick buck, then by all means, go for it. Game console developer
platforms are very much this way, but know that companies that hire game
developers view you as disposable as the tech used to make games. Occasionally
there's an exception like 3D engines that get used for other things, but
generally speaking, game developers are the most disposable of all developers.

There are other places to invest yourself if you're in it for the long haul, or
value your muscle memory and the ability to internalize your tools. When a tool
is internalized like it's a part of your body, then you can call upon it to do
your bidding without having to think about it. It's like the difference between
being able to touch type and having to hunt and peck. It's like the difference
between being able to play a musical instrument and having to think about where
to put your fingers. The right tools become a forever part of your body and
free up the rest of your mind to focus on the task at hand.













<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/30-questions-with-bing-mostly-about-seo/">30 Questions with Bing, Mostly About SEO</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/optimists-are-objectively-correct-while-pessimism-is-100-faith-based/">Optimists are Objectively Correct while Pessimism Is 100% Faith-Based</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/journaling/'>Journaling</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/text-editor/'>Text Editor</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/navigation/'>Navigation</a></h4></li></ul>