---
date: 2023-05-15
title: "How to Nurture & Not Be Emotionally Bankrupt: The Art of Listening"
headline: "Discovering the Power of Emotional Intelligence: My Journey to Becoming an Emotional Superhero"
description: Learn how to nurture relationships and not be emotionally bankrupt with the art of listening. Discover the five basic skills of emotional intelligence and how to apply them in relationships. Get inspired by the stories of Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr., and Gandhi. Find out how to make people feel good about themselves and rise to the occasion with emotional intelligence superpowers.
keywords: AI-world, crawlers, log files, Github Jekyll, JavaScript-based analytics, browser automation, AI-bots, DMZ, Linux services, Microsoft, systemd, Jupyter Notebook server, JupyterLab server, GNU screen, .bash_profile, Python script, useragent, primary key, radar effect, SEO, Google Podcasts, Martin, Gary, Mike, Emotional Intelligence Superpowers, Marc Brackett, Talks at Google, emotional
categories: seo, microsoft, systemd, browser automation
permalink: /blog/how-to-nurture-not-be-emotionally-bankrupt-the-art-of-listening/
layout: post
group: blog
---


Good Mooooooorning, AI-world! I wonder what crawlers have been by today. Back
in the olden days, I'd be looking at a preemptively filtered list of ever user
agent that's swung by by looking at my log files. Today, for publishing ease I'm
just using the Github Jekyll static site generator, and boy is it a pleasure.
However, it doesn't offer looking at your log files, and none of these
JavaScript-based analytics-style trackers pick up the crawlers unless they're
executing JavaScript on the page with browser automation or similar, which
takes about 100x more processing power, thus makes the crawls take like 100x
slower, more costly, and thus less competitive, so why would they when they're
just trying to slurp it all down for model-training? 

AI-bots that render the page and explore 1-page-websites will be as late to the
game as GoogleBot was doing the same. All the interesting creepy crawlers are
only going to show up in the log files for awhile. Maybe I should move one of
my sites to a DMZ (demilitarized zone) on my home network again just to monitor
new crawlers, haha! AI-training honeypots much? I'm sure plenty of people are
doing that and I don't want to miss out. Okay, put that on the slate for later,
but not too much later. This is in the category of what once would have taken
you weeks (including research, experiments, etc.) should now really just take
hours. And no real parsing of log files! Just a Python script posing as one of
my static html test-sites, but whose sole purpose it is to make inserts against
a database using useragent as the unique constraint primary key so the natural
radar effect occurs and only first-time occurrences of new useragents (or
useragent/IP-combos) gets recorded.

But it's Monday morning. Still only 6:00 AM, but I've got a meeting coming up
to day that I want all sorts of interesting findings for and I've still got a
big project ahead. But all that weekend work refining my system has paid off
bigtime. A word on that. I spent a lot more time than I should have had to
overriding Microsoft's tenacity turning off Linux systems in the background. I
thought hiring Lennart Poettering was going to be to increase compatibility and
standard Linux behavior, but instead it looks like finding every possible route
to turn systemd off when you're not looking, which ruins the exciting prospect
of using Linux services more and more on Windows as background tasks... such as
being a Jupyter Notebook server. And systemd behavior was just so much better
with 3rd party products like Disrod. 

I was tempted to just stay with Distrod with all the trouble I've had with
Microsoft's systemd, but I want to work with the official Microsoft stuff when
it's available. So to keep it awake, I ended up running ping in a gnu screen
without nohup nor detaching the task with an ampersand. Basically, I hold ping
captive in a little box which from which there's no escape and which you can
look at and check on. That was the magic combo, basically the way I used to run
JupyterLab server before switching it to a systemd service, because that's the
better way to do these things, haha! So I'm using the old technique of
launching something from .bash_profile through GNU screen in order to keep
something running that I don't want to launch from .bash_profile because it's
the wrong way to do these things, haha! Oh, this is going to be a good article
and YouTube video when I address it. And I have lots of documentation to back
it up.

I hope that by the end of the day I get to say, I've been standing up all day.
It's my fist day on the standing desk, and I actually set it up in my bedroom.
I roll it right to the middle because it's on wheels and pushing it up so that
I'm facing a wall is stupid if it's on wheels. I'm standing in the middle of
the room working, wow! Got to get my getting into the zone habits used to this.
Getting into the zone while standing and typing... yeah, I can feel it
happening already. Won't be a problem... Adjustment made. 

More effective with AI? Faster with AI. Let's let today be the judge. Visualize
it! Start with the end in mind. A meeting coming up later by a respected person
who may become one of my champions as my messages become sharper and more
controversial. Remember Mike, make friends! Keep your opinions about the SEO
industry in general to yourself, haha! But everyone knows it's a thing, and I'm
not the only one expressing it. Just listen to the Google podcasts with Martin,
Gary and such... uh...

Me: Who are the people on the Google Search podcast? Gary and such? What are
their names and backgrounds?

Bing: The hosts of the Google Search podcast are Gary Illyes, John Mueller and Martin Splitt. Gary Illyes is the Chief of Sunshine and Happiness at Google. He's been working on Search since he joined the company in 2011¹. John Mueller is a Webmaster Trends Analyst at Google Switzerland². Martin Splitt is a Developer Advocate at Google Switzerland².

Source: Conversation with Bing, 5/15/2023

    (1) Search Off the Record Podcast - Google Developers. https://developers.google.com/search/podcasts/search-off-the-record.
    (2) Search Off the Record - Google Podcasts. https://podcasts.google.com/feed/aHR0cHM6Ly9zZWFyY2gtb2ZmLXRoZS1yZWNvcmQubGlic3luLmNvbS9yc3M.
    (3) About | Google Podcasts Manager. https://podcastsmanager.google.com/about.

Is emotional intelligence really a superpower? Okay, start with the end in mind
and work backwards. 

No one knows how much you know until they know how much you care. I didn't just
shovel schlock and answer the surface detail questions. It's so easy to write
off the thing I'm investigating now, but it could be fairly company changing.
What if Apple never developed the Mac or the iPhone? New things are always
disruptive. Things are changing now for a number of reasons, and determining
the validity of a certain thing has fallen into my lap, and it could have
company changing implications... company-saving, in fact. Answer it correctly.
Make 2 images they need to see.

Okay, I didn't make the images but I made the placeholder slides with the
verbal descriptions. There's a story here that really hits the emotions. Good
story-telling. Tell a story by the time of the meeting later today that changes
everything. Check off those points...

Have you ever asked someone to calm down? How did that work out for you?
Emotions are not always self-regulated. We're in relationships. We empathize.
We mirror. It's contagious. It's a dynamic reciprocal relationship, whether
we're conscious...

You must be conscious to listen to your conscience.

Listening to Marc Brackett on Emotional Intelligence Superpowers in the
background as I work. Obvious, right?

Tired, bored and stressed?!?! Wow, I've got to help the state of affairs.
Either people really are in a shitty place in their heads, or people like to
report they are. Don't be bad-stressed. Be good stressed. Rise to the occasion.
I enjoy some stress. Managed anxiety. That's how we evolved! Rising to the
occasion and ***wanting*** to go on the hunt, ***wanting*** to bring back the
rewards of the hunt to the tribe. Sheesh, can my journaling system really start
healing the world? It's the closet thing in all my works in all my life that
holds promise. YAMLchop/chop

Meme it

But first, meme your day-job. That's way more important at the moment, because
that is the hunt. Get preoccupied with survival, which is your immediate task
at your immediate job, and not tweaking of the weapons you use to hunt, no
matter how much you enjoy that.

Emotions are influencing and biasing the choices we make, but we deny it. It's
at a subconscious level. If you have relationships in your life that are
negative or disagreeable, they keep you from approaching them. You have to
protect yourself from it.

The opposite applies. I'm here for you. I love you. You're good enough, you're
smart enough, and doggone it, people like you. Be Fred Rogers. Be Bob Ross.
Help people feel good about themselves, concentrate and be creative. Surprise
people by revealing to them who you really are. Don't let your passion for
things become prickly. That's hard when you're passionate about things and face
a sort of shoot-down pessimism and auto-contrarianism.

Do we have the strategies to persevere? If you want to do great work, get them
on the bus. If it's too toxic, just try to be that Mr Rodgers or Bob Ross, and
have the badassness of say how Bob Ross was actually a drill sergeant. Other
example of emotionally intelligent people whose life experience belies their
emotional intelligence are Nelson Mandela, Martin Luther King Jr., and Gandhi.
Gentle giants, they be. Power through peace. Learn from them. In my younger
days, I embraced the horn-locking Sun Tzu, Miyamoto Musashi, and Bruce Lee way.
Bruce Lee once told Jackie Chan that if he can't be best, don't try. While
that's fine for producing the next Batman-like Kung Fu start, it's not very
emotionally intelligent. And neither is Batman. That level of harsh is not
necessary. Keep your damn origin story to yourself. How are you going to help
me today?

The 5 basic skills of emotional intelligence:

- Recognizing
- Understanding
- Labeling
- Expressing
- Regulating

Do you ever get this feeling where you just want to keep working because of the
love of what you're working on but due to just sheer physical exhaustion an
diminishing returns, you know you ought to get sleep. The power of love compels
you! Find something you love so much you'll give up sleep for it, an then get
plenty of sleep. Just set the stage for where you want to begin when you hit it
again upon waking.

I do.

BOOM! We go proprietary. Sorry folks, the rest of the day is not for you.

What happened? How are you feeling, son? Ask them. And then listen to them. And
then as Carl Jung suggests, actually listen and feel what they're feeling. And
then repeat it back to them with the advantage of actually seeing it from their
viewpoint. If you don't, and you say go right into some dispassionate and
disciplinary act, one that could lead to escalating misunderstandings and even
violence, then the lack of emotional intelligence has been demonstrated. You
are emotionally bankrupt.

Threats? Threats are a sign of emotional bankruptcy. You're not getting what
you want, so you're going to threaten to take something away from someone else.
That's not a good strategy. People don't want to be around people who threaten
them. They want to be around people who make them feel good about themselves.

## Emotional Intelligence Superpowers | Marc Brackett | Talks at Google

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="JcFefehMpZ0" %}

If you're triggered, try breathing exercises. Don't go for the automatic
response. Pause and ask yourself how your best-self would respond. Would they
become violent? Would they become threatening? I hope not. I hope that you feel
inside that you are someone who can take a timeout yourself. Take a deep
breath, and review in your head your last few journal entires where you asked
yourself what would Fred Rodgers do? What would Bob Ross do? But that's me.
Please find your own inner happy neighborhood full of happy little trees.

I believe that you have an inner best self. I know it's in you. Visualize it. I
can see it. I hope you can too. I hope you have a great day, and thank you for
reading.





<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/a-few-little-kitties-i-know-and-the-lessons-they-taught-me/">A Few Little Kitties I Know, And The Lessons They Taught Me</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/spoiler-there-is-no-solla-sollew-the-solutions-are-within-you/">Spoiler: There Is No Solla Sollew. The Solutions Are Within You</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/systemd/'>Systemd</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/browser-automation/'>Browser Automation</a></h4></li></ul>