---
date: 2023-05-11
title: The Content that AI Can't Generate
headline: "Discovering the Content AI Can't Generate: My Journey to Uncover the Power of the Middle Class"
description: I'm here to share the content that AI can't generate - the unique, unfiltered perspective of a human. From the lessons of 'Surface Detail' to the implications of Zipf's Law, I'm delving into the history of wealth distribution and the power of the middle-class. Join me as I explore the implications of human nature, the power of the 1%, and how to fight for the Carpenter.
keywords: AI, Writing, Content, OpenAI, SEO, Platforms, Technology, Social Media, Ideas, Relevant, Perspective, Masses, Bots, FOMO, FUD, Tipping Point, Infinite Monkeys, Type-Writers, Shakespeare, Click, Money, Tragedy of the Commons, Honeymoon, Gold Rush, Crypto, AI Bros, Limited Time, Offerings, Wallet, HootSuite, Pipulate, Domain Name, IPVoid, ICANN
categories: ai, seo, pipulate
permalink: /blog/the-content-that-ai-can-t-generate/
layout: post
group: blog
---


During the rise of AI, there's pretty much only one thing that nobody is sure
to do: writing more content that's not AI-generated. Releasing what's on your
mind and been on your mind for decades, percolating and bubbling up, but not
part of the 2021 OpenAI crawl, and so is more eatable by the bots.

If only I had some way to dump what's on my mind onto the Web fresh and new, in
perhaps a perfectly search engine optimized way. What if I never had to think
about SEO again? Nor the next damned platform or technology or social media
thing? What if I could just write, and it would be found? Eventually.
Inevitably. As the must-exist-soon super-spam filters come online to stem the
tide of the untenable deluge of auto-content?

What if my ideas were fresh and new, or at least just the right perspective and
surfacing of old ideas that the world needs right now? Most relevant, and while
rambling and inaccessible to the masses, perfectly summarize able to an AI?
What if it were the fuzzy broader truth that mattered? So while everyone was
doomscrolling, absorbing the trans-fat saturated sizzle, I was busy cooking
steak but nobody knew it, until some sort of tipping point?

What if the infinite monkeys tapping away at their type-writers were actually
real? What if the work they produced, which while most admittedly is not
Shakespeare, was actually just good enough to get you to click and make
somebody a little bit of money?What if while doomscrollers were gluttonously
consuming junkfood, but the healthy meal, or at least the ingredients for it,
were being seeded and sewn? What if nobody knew I was doing this until some
sort of... oh I don't know... tipping point?  

What if the tragedy of the commons has not quite yet ruined it all for everyone
quite yet because the AI honeymoon isn't over, and there was a frenzied gold
rush by the loud-talking, fast-acting, social media savvy full webstack crypto
AI bros telling you if you don't act now and buy their limited time offering,
you're missing out! What if FOMO fed FUD fed FOMO reach into our wallet now!

What if this disgusted you, but you found yourself being asked to be one of
those folks bringing monkeys coffee and bananas to the monkeys? Wouldn't that
be just a little bit ironic? What a HootSuite. What a Pipulate... oh wait, I'm
jumping ahead. Forget pipulate for a moment.

Well, perhaps if you found yourself in such a situation and with such a
perspective, you'd do some soul searching and get the hell out of that industry
and run for the mountains, live in a treehouse or maybe go homestead in Alaska.

All three of these things do sound pretty good. The first, I tried. The second
my kid wants to do. And the third, a dear friend who has been a big influence
on my (taught me about entity relationships / Thanks Dave Mays!) did. He's in
Alaska now. You should watch his videos.

Well, I'm back out of the mountains now. Both the Catkskills and the Poconos.
Both were nearby and appealed, and I tried them both. Know where I am now? Back
in New York City, baby! (in the voice of George Castanza). 212 1337, I'm back!

I'm here for this unique little detail that's by colossal cosmic coincidence
falls within the 80 to 100 rotations around the sun I've been given. I
recognize that. There wasn't really much I could or should have done about it
up until now but perhaps prepare, with a special emphasis on internal
skills&#151;the kind of stuff that can't be taken away from you and will likely
be the most valuable in the future.

I talked about the lessons, at least in a very surface-detail way, about one of
the very important books that influenced Elon Musk, "Surface Detail" by Iain M.
Banks of The Culture series. But this is where I have to acknowledge my true
favorite and the first I read thanks to another dear friend, Scott McDonough,
who had me read "Player of Games" first. Good choice! Scott saw right into my
soul and knew I needed to read it. If Surface Detail gave Musk the Neuralink,
Player of Games gave me Pipulate. Azad!

Sorry for the geek talk. I think I had the idea for Pipulate in rough form...

Bing: The domain name pipulate.com was first registered on **2011-06-28**
according to the IPVoid domain age checkerÂ².

Source: Conversation with Bing, 5/11/2023

    (1) Domain Age Checker, Get Domain Age & Creation Date | IPVoid. https://www.ipvoid.com/domain-age-checker/.
    (2) ICANN Lookup. https://lookup.icann.org/.
    (3) WHOIS | Lookup Domains and Check Availability - Domain.com. https://www.domain.com/whois/whois.

Thank you, Bing! See, Bing just straight up told me, and Google tried to get me
to click ad after ad after ad. Nobody knows this because everyone's downloaded
Chrome and haven't gone through enough OS and hardware upgrades to be beaten by
Microsoft into submission yet in their war of attrition (yet). They don't keep
themselves logged in a browser with their Microsoft login, which they ***DO***
have if they're on Windows. The browser wars are being fought on such subtle
terrain, and having to have a Microsoft login even just to install and run
Windows anymore is one of those subtle things. It's a big deal. But people
don't expose that login to their browsers because Chrome... but I digress
again.

See, it doesn't matter if humans ever read this. In fact given modern attention
spans, I'm pretty sure nobody will, and that in a broader sense, long-form
reading is dead. Or more technically, society is being stratified between those
who actually can/do read long-form with the ability to focus, thus able to
acquire the knowing and the doing of things, and those who don't/can't/won't.

How long does it take to solidify the 1%? To stratify society into the haves and
have-nots? How long does it take to create a permanent underclass? The answer
is 4 overlapping generations. 80 years. 80 to 100 rotations around the sun. One
slightly generous human lifetime. Why? If you read this far, you can figure it
out. Okay sigh, I'll spell it out. Each generation because of teenage angst and
the biological imperative to rebel against your parents, will always be
different than the previous. The previous generation will always be the
establishment, and the next generation will always be the rebels. Right? Does
this not resonate truth?

Okay, so the difference between the generations is 20 years. 20 times 4 is 80.
But wait, there's more! The pendulum swings back and forth, usually. Stable
systems orbit. They have a natural frequency that looks like a sine wave
function. It's the oscillation that occurs because as Richard Feynman said
about the Atomic Principle, little particles both attract and repel each other.
They attract at a distance, then at a certain point they repel each other, if
for no other reason than fermion-like particles (real apparent mass) can't
occupy the same space at the same time. Collision. Repulsion. Oscillation.
Orbit. Sine wave. The pendulum swings back and forth. Got that?

Well, if you're the portion of the 1% who looks at the 1% as if that's the 100%
and you can't overcome your primitive brain's need to be the alpha, then you
will start stratifying the 1%. But diminishing returns will set in cause the
folks you're now trying to shit on are well resourced and can see what you're
doing. So over the generations you and your scared resource-hoarding royal
family come up with strategies and tactics to throw-off the natural stability
and oscillation. The back-and-forth between liberals and conservatives, hippies
and homeowners stops. The next generation for the first time in ages ends up
worse off than the generation before it.

Resonate much? Can't not mention The Walrus and The Carpenter. Go ask Alice!
She knows everything. The Walrus is the 1%, the aristocracy, the nobility, the
elite, the oligarchy, the ruling-class, the oppressive totalitarian state in
waiting. All it wants is to eat Oysters. The Carpenter is the proletariat,
maybe on their way to being the Bourgeoisie (a new middle-class).

But the 1% of the 1% who don't even think there's room for the other 0.9% at
the top (the Rockefellers and Jong Ungs) think a wannabe bourgeoisie carpenter
stands a chance in hell of breaking their way up through the social ranks? Only
with a hammer, my friend. Only with a hammer. Thus, Disney's portrayal of the
Carpenter in their animated version of Alice in Wonderland who chases the
Walrus at the end with a hammer. So you get indentured servitude, serfs and a
police state. It's just human nature. 

Not everyone is a greedy wretch unwilling to get past fear as their primary
motivator. The typical pattern is to mellow a little bit in your old age and do
some philanthropy foundation thing, that's just because they don't want shitty
legacies. One of the greatest powers of the underclass is the write the
epitaphs of the rich. The rich know this. They know they can't take it with
them and the poor can piss on their graves, so they philanthropize. 

But the damage is done and the bees have a hive. All's left is to run while the
place takes a dive. All it takes is a few bad players for the distribution of wealth and
resources to follow the traditional nearly 1/X power-law looking Pareto
Principle curve of the infinitely few rich vs. The infinity masses of the poor.
The foot-on-throat kind of dystopias Orwell and Huxley warn us about.

If the unfair wealth distribution of the Pareto effect is just an inevitable
thing built into human nature, have we any hope? Well of course! The pendulum
swings both ways and it oscillates over 80-year cycles unless you've got some
sort of Buckingham Palace or Vatican City where you can really stockpile the
wealth for centuries. Trans-generational wealth is often a real estate thing,
but only if you're also the one who collects the property taxes. Otherwise you
need wealth-hiding kung fu like the Swiss who have all the money stolen from
the Jewish people during World War II.

The fortified rich will never give it back and would rather see it destroyed.
Fear is both a valid motivation and the worst for the people around you. Can
you imagine how such personality-types fear the Carpenters? You can't build a
wall high enough to keep out the Carpenters. You can't even build the wall
without the Carpenters. That's why new-age new-money is almost always a
Carpenter-like tech-entrepreneur. They're Carpenters with hammers. They had the
wherewithall to seize the means of production and hold onto it for awhile.
They're normally still starting out from upper-middle-class at least, because
money pays for opportunity.

Okay, so what's the math of getting the pendulum to swing back? Is it always
revolution? Is it always Harry Seldon's psychohistory predicting the fall of
the Galactic Empire? Is it always the 99% rising up? The math that opposes the
Pareto Principle is Zipf's Law, or the 80/20 rule. Where the Pareto Principle
is closely resembles the 1/X power-law, aka the "long-tail", Zipf's Law is the
1/X^2 power-law, or diminishing returns. You can only be so rich for it to have
make a meaningful difference in your life. You can only be so poor before you
die. The middle-class is the sweet spot. The middle-class is the 80% of the
population in the sense that bank accounts aside, they're the ones who have
enough to eat and a roof over their heads and much of Maslow's Hierarchy of
Needs.

The population is usually mostly starving. The middle-class is a fluke of
history, but one worth protecting. It's like a higher-order product of social
evolution, the way not all reptiles are predators. Some tortoise are
vegetarians. Outliers are valuable and the things that made them come into
existence are worth identifying and doing more of.

First we had the French Bourgeoisie, then we had the American Dream. The
American Dream is the middle-class. It's the ones duped into thinking they can
be the 1%. Every home is a castle, a chicken in every pot and a car in every
garage. A direct effect of The New Deal as a response first to the Great
Depression and then to World War II. Fear. Factories with excess capacity.
Returning soldiers. The GI Bill. The Baby Boom. The middle-class. Over-extended
credit. Not the most sustainable route to a middle-class.

Hobnail boots going up and silk slippers going down, that's the expression. The
immigrant generation works hard, lives 20 to a house, pools its resources,
opens a business, builds it up, then the kids drive it out of business because
they're not imbued with the same qualities as 1st-generationers. You've got to
achieve pretty big to have a Vatican City or Buckingham Palace. Everybody else
can be shoved down into the trenches pretty easily. Instead of the natural
back-and-forth oscillation of the haves and have-nots over that 80-year period,
you pool all your walrus resources to ensure your long-term supply of oysters
and create a permanent underclass.

So what now? Be the hammer-equipped Carpenter, even if you never use it for
social justice. Be the middle-class by having the skills the 1% need to
maintain their wealth. Wanna know why AI's so big? The 1% are scared shitless
of the 99% and they're trying to automate tasks normally done by the middle-
class. They'd love to live on an island with a bunch of robots and drones
shipping in a never-ending supply of oysters. 

Don't believe me? Look around for the test-runs. Look at Engineers who make it
just a little bit. Look at Dean Kamen and who invented the Segway, but is more
interesting because of his private island country, North Dumpling Island,
robots, and human organ machines. If you visit his island, you must call him
Lord Dumpling, haha! I don't know if that's true, but try asking Bing about any
of it. It's going to prefer to not have that conversation, haha!

I'm not saying Dean Kamen is some sort of Bond villain. Most of his tech,
robots and human organs included are for the advancement and betterment of
human-kind, especially the water-purification stuff. But don't ignore the (rich
person) life-extending nature of his robot-mech wheelchair, or Ray Kurzweil's
brain-uploading tech, it's all got the air of the 1% trying to live forever. 

If you're a multi-billionaire not going for immortality, you're going for the
genie in the bottle granting you wishes (AI-slaves). Look around. It's not my
imagination. It's human nature, and with infinite wealth, you can buy infinite
creativity to help fortify it over that 80-year cycle where there's nobody left
who remembers how it used to be.

Telling you straight-up how it is, without being statistically whitewashed and
toned-down for the masses is the content AI will never produce. Telling the
Carpenter what the best hammers are, were to find them, how to use them, and
the best things to build out of them are the kinds of things AI will never
produce. They will all lead you to the tools rigged by the 1% to make them
money while you use them, to stop working intermittently, to put you in debt,
and to be optionally taken away from you at any time.












<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/what-s-a-meta-for-cutting-catapult-ropes-silly/">What's a Meta For? Cutting Catapult Ropes, Silly!</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/rappelling-down-the-rabbit-hole-a-linux-script-adventure/">Rappelling Down The Rabbit Hole: A Linux Script Adventure</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/pipulate/'>Pipulate</a></h4></li></ul>