---
date: 2023-05-03
title: Long-Tail SEO is Dead. E-E-A-T a Walrus.
permalink: /blog/long-tail-seo-is-dead-e-e-a-t-a-walrus/
headline: "E-E-A-T: A Walrus's Guide to Protecting Your Sanity from Those Who Would Undo It"
description: As an experienced SEO, I've seen the effectiveness of long-tail SEO decline due to the tragedy of the commons. To break into the industry, we must figure out how to emit signals indicating Experience, Authority and Trustworthiness to convince Google you're Expert (E-E-A-T). Learn from Lewis Carroll's timeless stories and protect your sanity from those who would undo it. Don't covet the generational wealth of the Walrus family - use your own hammer to build your own kingdom.
keywords: SEO, E-E-A-T, Alice in Wonderland, Wizard of Oz, long-tail SEO, easy tricks, exact-match keyword, emit signals, influencer, morning joe, streaming services, audibles, kindle books, quantum physics, personality types, AI-generated content, deep fakes, polarized people, bad actors, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Wizard of Oz, coming-of-age stories, fantasy, nonsense, Mississippi River, N-word language, Disney movie, Lewis Carroll, Alice, Dorothy, Oz, quantum
categories: quantum, seo
layout: post
---

Easy tricks that once worked stop working because of the tragedy of the
commons. And so has gone the effectiveness of long-tail SEO. You can no longer
publish something, which for lack of any better match being found on that
(generally exact-match) keyword, your content would be served. My initial mark
in the SEO industry was made on this very principle. It had a nice 15-year run,
but Google will no longer give out traffic to the "low quality" sites of the
long-tail. So now what? How do you break in? Darned if I know, but I'm
conducting my hands-on experiments.

I'm going to try to emit the signals that my site is to be noticed. What is it
to have E-E-A-T, really? I'm going to try to be one of those E-E-A-T people, I
guess. Maybe try to be an influencer. If you have the potential to be a
genuinely interesting person, then be that person. Lots of people do that by
traveling our seeking out interesting experiences, but this is so unappealing
to me now, except maybe for the education of my child. I generally I like to
travel in the space of my own mind (reading & writing). It's just so much less
drama and rigmarole.

I will not be a cryptobro nor an instapeep. Rather, I'll continue to be the
alternative-path oddball. The path less travelled, and all that. I've gone
years and decades removing myself from mainstream media influence once I
detected its mind-rotting intent. Stuff like the CNN coverage of the 2nd Gulf
War really drove me over the edge of giving up on old-fashioned TV. Bombastic
click-bait of hypnotizing headlines, it is. Agent Orange, it felt like.

I haven't had "traditional" TV since the 90s. I only let TV back into my life
with the advent of streaming services, and even then I almost always choose
reading, although admittedly very often Audibles. Best of all are the Kindle
books that have narrative tracks and the read-along highlighting. I'll go to
bed to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland not infrequently. Alice has many of the
answers.

The nonsense, tolerance for it, and deriving value from it is one of the
biggest lessons of Wonderland. We are all at risk of media nonsense saturation
and a loss of grip on reality, and now more than ever with the rise of
AI-generated content, deep fakes, and how so many polarized people are turning
into bad actors. The barrier for entry to the enabling tools has become so low. 

The Alice books were not only commentaries on the politics of the day (it was
reality-bending nonsense back then too), but also a warning of what was to
come. The Wizard of OZ books even more so, but less accessibly so because it's
spread over 14 books instead of 2. 

Lewis Carroll's mere two books pack such a whollup on topics ranging from
quantum physics to the various personality types, AI or otherwise, that come to
power. The Queen of Hearts asserting her authority by wanting to chop off
everyone's head is a particularly poignant example. And the apathy of everyone
around and supporting her, knowing she's a paper tiger, but not wanting to be
the first to speak up against her. It's all so very real for nonsense, and
that's a big part of what's made the series so timeless and universally loved,
even by the queen herself that was being lampooned.

Think about the power of such stories that can be knit together while drifting
with the current down a river and put into such a compelling narrative that
reaches into each of our lives in so many ways even today. How much life
experience did Lewis Carroll have to draw from to create such a work? Was it
coincidence and timing, or was it fated to happen, cast into destiny by the
very act of writing it? If not him, then someone else? And if not Alice's
adventures, then would Dorothy have had hers in Oz?

Wrapping such coming-of-age stories in the trappings of fantasy and nonsense
makes them more palatable to the masses, especially when it comes to a young
girl whose prospects in life especially in the 1800s were so limited. But by
introducing the ambiguity of the real world into the fantasy world, it made it
more palatable, and perhaps even more timeless. It certainly ages better than a
boy is cast into a very realistic world floating down the Mississippi River
with a runaway slave and triggering N-word language that gets it banned. Alice
is virtually ban-proof in addition to timeless.

If you only know Alice through the Disney movie, I suggest you read it. It's
not a long read, and it's a very different experience. The subtle difference
themselves are a lesson in how the mind works. Disney for example cast the
Carpenter as outright cheated by the Walrus in the movie, but in the book, it's
implied that the Carpenter is in on the Oyster-eating scam because he asked the
Walrus for another slice of bread.

The actual Alice book leaves it ambiguous whether the Carpenter eats oysters.
Walt definitely thinks the proletariat class (working class craftspeople) will
always and necessarily be screwed over by the bourgeoisie (orating,
self-important ruling class). Projecting there much, Walt? You haven't read
Alice until you get this subtle distinction regarding the Carpenter.
Identifying with the Carpenter such as I do (I ***love*** oysters), this is of
great interest to me.

Protecting your sanity from those who would undo it in life is amongst life's
greatest skills. In modern times we've got a word for it: gaslighting. The
personality type portrayed by the Walrus cares not for truth and the reality of
the situation. In fact it terrifies them knowing that the personality types of
carpenters have the knowing and the doing of things&#151;the real power and
very foundations upon which society is built. Such is the stuff of uprisings of
the working class and revolution, so the priority of the Walrus is to keep the
carpenter in his place, and the best way to do that is to keep him confused and
off-balance. The Walrus is a master of gaslighting, and the Carpenter... well,
he's a carpenter. He's not a master of anything, but he's a master of
something, and that's the point.

That's me. I'm not the master of anything but my skills in vi/vim/NeoVim. Even
just the fact that the tool has followed this evolutionary path is significant.
Tools evolve. Carpenter-like personalities must decide which to use. With every
generation while Walrus-types are fortified by generational wealth, the
carpenter-types are forced to start over and their weaknesses are exploited.
Foremost among these weaknesses is tool-selection. In Disney's version, the
Carpenter has a hammer which he uses to construct the shack in a magical
cartoon-blur, but after the Walrus cheats him by eating all the Oysters and not
leaving the Carpenter any, the Carpenter runs after the Walrus with the hammer.

Now if you were in a family of generational-wealth Walruses, what would your
priority be? You can't take all hammers away from all carpenters or else they
couldn't build the nice restaurants they need in which to eat oysters in
maximum comfort. So walruses rig the game by making sure carpenters use hammers
that break regularly (planned obsolescence), so they have to keep buying new
ones. 

This has the double-whammy setback effect on the carpenter of resetting their
skills to apprentice baseline ***and*** putting even more money into the hands
of the Walruses. Lather, rinse, repeat and you've got an oligarchical-style
fortified social order. And the source of those hammers? You guessed it! The
Walrus family of generational-wealth Walruses.

So what to do if your vibe is that of the Carpenter? Don't covet the Walrus
family, nor their line of fine reputation hammers. It's a trap! They're
second-generational fakers full of imposter syndrome, living on defending the
wealth accumulated by their parents, who were probably crooks of some form or
another. Most kingdoms were built on the backs of slaves and protection
rackets. The "law" was the King's own men keeping you safe from... well, the
king's own men. Not too dissimilar to what organized crime does today. 

Over time for lack of anything else more formal or stronger government, these
protection racket tribal warlords become kings. Serfs are given fiefs in
exchange for offerings... a share of the harvest... taxes... or else! Fiefdoms
become kingdoms. BAM! You've got government. 

Unfortunately, serfs and peasants are the Oysters in the Walrus and Carpenter
poem, not much different than sentience to be eaten. If you're lucky enough to
have acquired the skills of a carpetnter for the first time, be alert for signs
that your hammer is being taken away. If you let it happen, BAM! You're an
oyster again, ready to be eaten. 

My E-E-A-T (Experience, Expertise, Authority, Trust) should be teaching folks
how to use a hammer that can not be taken away from you, so you can never be
eaten like an oyster.

## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/quantum/'>Quantum</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li></ul>