---
date: 2023-05-06
title: Reverse Chronological Writing is the Natural Order
headline: "I Discovered the Natural Order of Writing: Reverse Chronological"
description: I explore how reverse chronological writing is the natural order for blogging. I discuss the history of writing, how technology has changed the way we write, and the instinctive feeling of starting with a blank page that comes with reverse chronological order. This is the format that satisfies our human need to start at the top of a blank page every time.
keywords: reverse chronological, writing, journal entries, formative experience, personality type, arrow direction, blogging software, subtlety, nuance, life, magic spell, traditional blogging, logs, ledgers, scrolls, text editors, word processors, cursor, electronic media, top-to-bottom, left-to-right, right-to-left, software tricks, blank page, fresh page, night/day, sleep/wake cycle, micro-inversions, blog post, blog, readers
categories: text editors
permalink: /blog/reverse-chronological-writing-is-the-natural-order/
layout: post
group: blog
---


Those last 2 journal entries were whoppers. One was about a formative
experience of my life, encountering a personality type that helped shaped me by
forcing me to become like it to contend with it, then having to back out of the
process so it didn't ruin me. The other was about getting the arrow direction
right in my blogging software, haha! And the two are about as intertwined in my
mind as such diverse topics can be. Subtlety and nuance were the common thread.
Life is lived like casting a subtle magic spell over the entire duration of
your life.

One thing leads into the next into the next, and now that all the basic
mechanics of how I'm going to organize information for the rest of my life is
worked out, for you see this latest rendition of my blogging software really
only fell into place on August 5, 2021, when I decided to make "a version" of
it public again, after a long hiatus of private-only journaling. The private
journaling just doesn't have the... uh, shall we say evolutionary forces being
applied to it as one you're going to out out there in front of people. Namely,
I never had to slice & dice the public one.

Slicing the public journal has a default natural behavior and order to it that
very much parallels "traditional" blogging software. But how traditionally can
something as recent as blogging be? Blogging inversely parallels the "logging"
part of its name. Logs or ledgers are the oldest form of writing, and they
record the past. The nature of recording media usually means that new entries
in a log or ledger have to be appended onto the end. If you're writing on a
scroll, once you wrote at the top of the scroll, you continue writing at the
bottom. If writing in an empty book, once you fill the first page, you have to
go to the second and so on.

Tech changes this, and with the advent of text editors and word processors, the
decision had to be made as to the conventional place to put the pointer when
you open a document. The top? The bottom? The bottom would have made the most
sense according to traditional media, but the top was chosen. Why? Because
people are used to reading from the top down.

Yes, there's left-to-right vs. right-to-left, but East and West still agree on
top-to-bottom. So with the advent of electronic media, the top of the page
became the logical place to put the cursor when opening a document in software.
The naturalness became apparent, because think about the alternative. Say
you've written a hundred pages (what's even a page in digital form?). You open 
the document and the cursor is at the bottom. You start typing new stuff at the
end, as if you're adding to the end of a scroll.

As you type in what seems to be the default style, you're always typing at the
end of the document, and thus at the bottom of the screen. Your entire past
history is always in front of you and getting "pushed up" as you type. It's a
bit uncomfortable and odd. You never actually get that "blank page" feeling of
a fresh piece of paper. This can be remedied with all kinds of software tricks,
like having the cursor start at the top of the page and blank space below you
representing empty page. But then you start typing and filling the page and
eventually reach the bottom, and you're in the same situation. The software can
scroll as you go and always try to keep you in the middle, page half-empty with
the future below and the past above.

All these solutions are odd and opinionated, right? You only get that fresh
start feeling each time you start at the top of a fresh new page, and somehow
this is elevated in the human mind to being much more important than actually
emulating real-world physical media like scrolls or books.

We ***want*** to start typing at the top of a blank page. As opposed to being
an analogue to media that we're emulating, it's an analogue to life that we're
emulating. It's the night/day sleep/wake cycle of existence. It's each day
being a blank page unencumbered by the past. Taking your entire history and
putting it above you as something to be "pushed up" as you type into the bottom
of a long scrolling document just doesn't feel right. It's not an analogous to
life. Maybe it is, but it sure doesn't feel like it.

What feels right is a new page at the top every time that pushes your past
farther and farther down below as you type. Small inversions is what it is.
Reverse chronological order, which is the more natural feeling format for
blogging is entirely as opinionated as any other solution. It just doesn't feel
that way. It satisfies a human instinct to want to start at the top every time.
There's probably some deep channeling here that rapid-fire micro-inversions
feels natural.

Rapid-fire micro-inversions? What the heck are you talking about Mike? Well, in
any given blog post, time flows forward. You start writing, so your first
sentence is the oldest and as you type making the post longer, the newer stuff
is lower and lower in the post until it's done. The last thing written is the
nest thing in the post, but it's not at the top of post's page. It's at the
bottom. But when people come into your blog to read it, you don't want them to
start reading at the end, so the newest post itself is at the top.

Content is chunked on the post-element level, and 2 different sort-orders are
used. One which is the natural order of top-down writing within the post, and
another which is the reverse chronological order of the posts themselves. The
"reverse" in reverse chronological order is the inversion. The inversions are
rapid-fire assuming you're writing frequently enough to call it a journal.

Thus, electronic media has allowed us to follow a more natural and analogous to
life blogging format that the physical media of scrolls and books did not
*easily* allow. Yes, yes, it's possible with physical media to do reverse
chronology. It's just not easy, Scrolls for example are not made from a single
sheet of paper so you can always bind new pages to the top, and I'm sure this
was done, but it's not easy. Just ask a Sofer, one of the modern scribes who
fixes Torahs. But to have such a skilled technical craft required as route part
of day-in-day-out work would be a huge burden and not a big encouragement to
write. The bound nature of books (called binding) poses a similar challenge to
adding pages in the beginning.

When I sat down to make an 1-text-file blog, I had to make a decision as to
which way to go. I used the natural order of writing, and started at the top of
the file and written down. Rapid-fire reverse inversions it was. But I couldn't
call it that, and I had to come up with a simple mechanism to deal with the
desired "fresh page" feeling, which writing from the *true* top of the file
only halfway addresses, for you see I could have faked a fresh blank page by
overriding the default cursor position and dropped you way to the bottom of a
long text document every time you opened it and preemptively push the past up
and out of visibility, "faking" the top. It has a certain purity appeal. Time
flows 1 direction alone, top-to-bottom with no need for magical
micro-inversions.

But lean into the strength and tendencies of your tools. Don't set yourself up
to be fighting them all the time. Text editors, word processors and everything
like them that will probably ever exist will always and forever open documents
and position your cursor at the top, and human beings being what we are are
always just going to want to start typing there. Of course! Don't fight it.

The solution was a keyboard shortcut that would set the stage for your typing
by simply inserting enough new "fake future" blank lines at the top of the file
to push the past out of view. It's a light touch. It's a simple solution. It's
the 80/20-rule, leaning into the strengths of tools, abiding by the natural
tendencies of human beings, and a righteous solution of the time I always
strive to achieve.

Some hocus pocus is required. Some opinionated programmatic macro magic is
required. But it's the least of all evils. It's the best solution I could come
up with, and it's been working in my private journal since Friday, December 5,
2014 and here since August 5, 2021. It's a good solution.

Today it seems and feels so obvious and natural to me, that it's done what any
good tool does. It faded into the background and I no longer think about any of
it at a conscious level. My mind and my fingers make all these invisible little
decisions and movements and I don't even notice. It becomes the new normal, and
indeed a new *starting point* for the next round of improvements, which I am
now finally up to addressing today, after having gotten through my backlog of
how to format it for the public.

For you see, no matter what your decisions are in how to organize the original
source data-file, you still have to format it for the public. Natural writing
order is not necessarily the same as natural reading order. It is in this case,
because you usually want your audience starting with your newest post and
working backwards, but there's all sorts of yeah-buts.

Yeah, but they can't load that as one long page on the Web. Or if they do, it's
going to be very slow. And if it's text-only and can be done (computers are
quite powerful), the UI would be terrible. It's got the benefit of already
being at the top where you should start reading, but it seems ridiculous to
load an entire "book's worth" of text into a computer's memory just to read one
page. Not on the Web, at least. It should be just one page, with the ability to
"call up" the next page on demand. Or the previous page if you want to go back
and re-read something. And thus the previous/next arrows discussed in my prior
blog post. 

Having knocked out the arrows, my mind goes to other public content consuming
issues. Reverse chronological order is the natural order of blogging, but
presenting everything you've ever written that way can be a chore. Lots of
posts and really long sequence! I won't wipe that away. It's a good default.
And I've already layered in "categories" which allow you to find posts
belonging to particular topics, but once you're in a post, the prev/next arrows
are still of the very long sequence.

I've experimented with 2 sets of arrows, one for categories and one for the
giant sequence, but that's utterly confusing. And models that let you switch
between arrow-types are both confusing and don't lean into the strength of
static site generators (SSG) like Jekyll in how they call for more dynamic
features. Such dynamic features can be layered in client-side with JavaScript,
but then... but then... busy-loop! Abort!

So categories can have their own table of contents pages (a.k.a. index pages),
but the previous/next arrow experience has to somehow be both simple and
contained only within categories and other arbitrary groupings (poetry, YouTube
playlists, etc.) that I might come up with.

Under a static site generator model, the obvious solution is to just have
duplicate copies of the pages here and there, in this sequence or that. And in
the past when SEO was the top priority of such a system, it just caused more
problems of duplicate content and having to use canonical tags to tell Google
which one was the "real" one. But Google killed the long-tail, woo hoo! Let's
take advantage of that and duplicate the shit out of this content and make the
best user experience possible under something like the Jekyll SSG.

I'll still use the canonical tag to decide which one is the intended
master-copy, but that's a lower priority now than user experience. It's a dog
E-E-A-T dog world out there, and if in your experience, you have to use your
expertise to duplicate content that expresses your authority in order to
communicate effectively, thus becoming trustworthy, then so be it. Google makes
the new realities. Google lives with the new realities. Concerns for new
realities trump the concerns for old dead realities.

And so my plan is forming. I keep a reverse chronological "master list" of my
blog posts. But then I start poaching that to shape better user experiences
hidden within. There's that "trickle-up" concept again. Good content coalesces
from a broader more verbatim reverse chronological ledger that accumulates as a
side-effect of life. Reverse-chronological blogging models on the night/day
cyclical nature of life, the one true order of your life. But refined user
experiences can be shaped from that, modeled on a more idealized curated linear
sequence of events that you can only see in hindsight.














<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/reverse-chronological-writing-is-the-natural-order/">Reverse Chronological Writing is the Natural Order</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/editing-text-as-a-form-of-meditation-or-martial-arts-kata/">Editing Text As a Form of Meditation or Martial Arts Kata</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/text-editors/'>Text Editors</a></h4></li></ul>