---
date: 2023-05-12
title: Are You Jacked Into the Metaverse or Living in Flatland?
headline: I'm Doing the Right Things for the Right Reasons - Rekindling My Interest in Technology with the Right Spark
description: I'm a slow learner, but once I understand a tool, I'm unstoppable. I'm exploring the potential of portable systems, and the power of AI, to increase my impact and the impact of those around me. I'm using Jupyter and some proprietary tools that hook to it to demonstrate the potential of the platform and show people what they really need to see.
keywords: PC modding, LAN parties, Snow Crash, Microsoft, Visual Studio, VSCode, VSCodium, Chrome, Chromium, Carl Jung, Rebound Psychiatry, Middle East, Jew, AI, Jun, Shadow-dude, Claw, Intellisense, Copilot, NeoVim, Vim, Mac, Microsoft Edge, Azure, Dependency, Open Mind, Netscape, WordPerfect, Borland, Muscle Memory, Zone, Platform, Plugins, Noah's Ark
categories: ai, vim, microsoft, mac, dependency, muscle memory
permalink: /blog/are-you-jacked-into-the-metaverse-or-living-in-flatland/
layout: post
---


So you can be doing all the right things for all the right reasons, and still
feel guilty. Your parents did that to you. It's just one of those social
programming things. Your brain was wired-up by people who didn't know shit
themselves and were either doing what they thought was best for you, or had
incorrect notions about children.

With each generation, we try to break the cycle in some way. Do better. Do
worse. Care about the same things and outshine. Care about other things and
devalue the parent's thing. If the parents are hyper-organized, kid goes the
other way because "enforcement" was actually and unwittingly ***negative
enforcement***. Violin and chess prodigies give it up all the time. If the
interest isn't of the kid's choice, it's an imposition.

Listen. Play the observation game. In your mind you should always be doing a
certain game laid out by rebound psychiatrist Carl Jung, which is to first to
hear, then be heard. And no, it's not waiting your turn to talk. It's hear and
then do an iterative back-and-forth with who you're listening to, trying to
rephrase the points they're trying to make until they confirm for you that they
now believe and understand that you've heard them.

Honestly, there's situations that no matter how much you listen-to, keep an
open mind towards, suspend your disbelief and mentally to walk a mile in their
shoes, they will never believe you've heard them. Sure, the shortcoming may
still be on your side, but don't be the one who digs in on any position until
you're running a little virtual copy of the other person's brain. If you just
can't and empathy eludes you, then go get some help yourself. They'll be able
to tell you if it's you or you're just dealing with someone who's past the
pathological point on the scale of whatever dark bundle they're carrying.

If you haven't made it by now, you're never going to make it, was one of the
most awful things ever said to me in my life. I mean, there were a few others
like the afore-discussed Claw who actually proposed with all the sincerity in
the world a "final solution" to the Middle East problem. I mean, I explore a
lot of places in my mind, but there's just certain things you don't say to a
Jew. I was seeking to understand this gentlemen, and I suddenly did.

Sometimes a light goes on in your head and you finally see what was previously
in the dark. Everything is actually a lot different than you thought. Simpler,
in a way. I mean I'm all for getting to know Jung's inner-world and the
shadow-self dude as the you that you don't like about yourself, but sometimes
***their shadows*** and ***your shadows*** recognize each other and... well,
let's just say you don't want them meeting in dark ally.

Slowly back away. Find a door. Run, Forrest, run! Don't look back.

When you encounter behavior that's so extraordinarily out of character from
everything you've been led to believe so far that it dawns on you precisely
that you have been "led" to believe something. When it finally becomes clear,
you have to just hope you're not already in the slaughterhouse.

That's just life. Predation is such a deep part of evolution, and ambush
predation such an effective means of predation, that it's going to
spontaneously reoccur everywhere. It's easier to cheat. It's easier to find
loopholes. And indeed, the crocodilian life-template is one of the
longest-lived big-animal designs. And saber-toothism allowing for big prey to
be taken down fast is a spontaneous re-evolving trait in way more than just
cats. I'm just hoping the AIs don't feel the need to be saber-toothed.

So, let's go gather at the waterhole. I'll be on a Mac again soon, and with it
I will be testing yet 2-more versions of VSCode. There will be VSCode the
proprietary full-featured version from Microsoft, and there will be VSCodium,
the truly free and open source extraction of the non-proprietary bits. VSCodium
is to VSCode what Chromium is to Chrome. Don't you just love how creative
Microsoft is? It gives them the Edge.

I'll try to get used to it again. I do feel VSCode-envy every time I see
Intellisense twinkle. However, I have Copilot in my vim-like NeoVim
environment, and that goes a long way to reaffirming the wisdom of my
decade-old decision to replatform off of the next Visual Studio IDE-like thing.
The fact that the product killing VSCode is called VSCode, I mean am I the only
one to see the irony? The fact that it's free makes up for it? No, the fact
that it's free and from Microsoft makes it a watering hole. Watch out from
crocs. They're not so easy to see in that blue water, because they're azure.
You can dependency on it.

Is that the open mind I need? Am I really seeking to understand Microsoft's
viewpoint in this discussion? Should I be as generous with Microsoft as they
are with Netscape? WordPerfect? Borland? I mean, I'm not another software
vendor, so I shouldn't worry, right?

You know what it is? It's that I'm a slow-learner an like to master the tools
of my craft deeply and use them for a long time. I like muscle memory to kick
and for my fingers to fly over the keyboard. I like getting into the zone and
staying in the zone. I like to minimize the times the very "shape of my body"
changes underneath of me, which is exactly what happens when tooling changes
against your will.

I probably got into the wrong business in tech, but not really because I'm not
alone. It's just that those who feel like I do are what? Like totally silent,
tappity tapping away and not on social media. And when they finally are and you
think there's hope, they turn out to be the crypto bro crown just having taking
up NeoVim because there's a Chad plugin for it that makes them project the
image of cool. Ugh, plugins. 

Echos of the PC game modding scene and the time of Quake LAN parties. Many will
reminisce at that fondly, but I was reading Snow Crash at the time, and all the
"Feds" avoided the Metaverse and still lived in "flatland". I was like yeah,
that's me. You can go jacking into the Metaverse all you want. I'm a flat-land
kind of dude, and the spare cycles that's going to make available in my head
will pay back in all kinds of ways for the rest of my life. And it is. Others
feel like I do too, or else Copilot wouldn't be available in NeoVim.
 
PC modding and LAN parties are cool for college kids, but out in the real-world
I find having mastery of the common default, when that common default is good
enough, is the best way to go. If you can find the love in the common default,
all the better. And no, VSCode is not the common default. It's the new kid on
the block and it's a house of cards. An editor built on a browser built on a
browser engine extracted from a Google project characteristic of a state of
hardware and platforms that will change.

There's a lot of people using VSCode today that are being led to believe
something. They're being led to believe that a certain programming paradigm and
a certain user interface style and certain very convoluted and uniquely
Microsoft way of doing things is going to last. I mean for those who just
relearn their tools, pick up new languages and flow from paradigm to paradigm
(and these people **do** exist), it's not a big deal. But then there's me.

I'm a slow learner, slow on the uptake, but once I've figured out how the tool
works and have its ins and outs and nuances, watch out! I mean sure I'm
probably over-inflating my own abilities, but look at my old Levinux script.
Over a decade ago and massive utility of a VM that just floats from host
machine to host machine, regardless of OS or hardware, and it still works today
mostly unmodified. I mean who does that? Unfortunately, it's old-QEMU-based and
its utility as a Noah's Ark for a development platform "to go" is limited. But
the concept stands. It's still the big trick and the massive unreleased
potential out there.

And now that Linux VMs are just like a common thing, and Docker has predisposed
everyone to accepting the main basic premise of portable systems, it's time to
show what a portable system can really be. It doesn't have to be so
complicated, restrictive and vendor-oriented as Docker. It can be user, hacker,
developer, and even enterprise-oriented. It can forge the way to both freedom
from the cloud and a better ability to use the cloud. 

Few get it, but that's what my current round of cutting the catapult ropes is
about. Sure it's "my passion", but it's also a key central part of my job. It's
that unclear things that others don't see, least they'd be having more impact
than they currently are. An yes, that's projection. That's precisely what I'm
doing here. Magic tricks to increase both my impact, and the corresponding
impact of those who my work touches. 

If I haven't "made it" by now, well then it's damn well time I did, and you
know what? AI's helping, and that just makes the story all the more
interesting. Cutting catapult ropes and releasing the potential that's already
there, because many disparate but related projects have taken you right to the
edge... right to the edge... and now... and now...

A real Snowflake / Snowpack demonstration where I'm actually using Jupyter and
the Snowpack package that "gets the point"... rather than the quick one-off SQL
query thing I could do through their WebUI, which while it would have hit that
checkbox, doesn't really show the power of the platform.

I will be able to talk deeply. I will be able to make real apps, real
automations out of other peoples' terabytes of data without downloading a
single byte onto my machine, all while using my comfortable Jupyter
environment. I will be what everyone needs to see instead of what they want to
see. It took me more time then I planned, yeah. I'm doing the right things for
the right reason. Loss of interest can always be rekindled with the right
spark.














<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/if-jekyll-supports-toml-because-both-were-made-my-tom-and-jekyll-is-in-github-why-is-yaml-now-the-bomb/">If Jekyll supports TOML because both were made my Tom, and Jekyll is in GitHub, why is YAML now the bomb?</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/intense-round-of-pre-productivity-tooling-refinement/">Intense Round of Pre-Productivity Tooling Refinement</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/mac/'>Mac</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/dependency/'>Dependency</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/muscle-memory/'>Muscle Memory</a></h4></li></ul>