---
date: 2023-05-05
title: The Time I Learned I Was a Yankee Doodle Dandy
headline: Maxwell Smart vs. Detective Columbo, A Tale of 2 Secret Alphas
description: Am I'm Michael Scott? I think so sometimes. But then I remember I trained like a mofo to never be an imposter, and I've got the vim skills to prove it. I've learned that subtlety and nuance make all the difference, and even if you come off like the bumbling fool, that's okay. Creative folks have to run alone sometimes, so that they can offer their greatest value when they return to the pack.
keywords: Imposter, Imposter Syndrome, Cracking the Code, Second Greatest, Secret Alpha, Bumbling Fool, Michael Scott, Steve Carell, Don Adams, Maxwell Smart, Get Smart, James Bond, TV Show, Movie, The Office, Archetype, Bumbling Spy, Catchphrase, Would You Believe, Sorry About That Chief
categories: imposter syndrome
permalink: /blog/the-time-i-learned-i-was-a-yankee-doodle-dandy/
layout: post
---


Subtlety and nuance make all the difference. I've found that 2 categories of
people don't want to think so, or at least express such opinions:

- Those who are too lazy or scared to delve into the difficult hairy details
  but hide it and thus are the very ***imposters*** of *imposter syndrome*.
- Gatekeepers who have become keepers to the keys to the kingdom and don't want
  to lose their power to those ***cracking the code***.

Oh yeah, if you're feeling imposter syndrome, maybe you are an imposter. That's
the kind of shit that gets me in trouble.

I have history. I have had conflicts with folks in the past. You know who I am?
I'm Michael Scott, Steve Carell's character from *The Office*. I have some
natural skill for the field I'm in, but in so many ways, I'm the bumbling fool.
It's a classic personality type. It's no wonder that Steve Carell who plays
that role so well was also tapped to play Don Adams... uh I mean Maxwell Smart
in the Get Smart movie, the all-time ***second greatest*** Secret Alpha.

For those too young to remember, there was an old TV show called *Get Smart*.
It was a spoof of the James Bond movies and was what was remade into the movie
with *The Office's* Steve Carell. Maxwell Smart is the archetype of that
bumbling spy who always manages to succeed anyway, with the catchphrase "Would
you believe...?" and "Sorry about that, Chief!" 

Sound familiar? No? Well anyway, they're classic fictional examples classic
personality types I call ***"Secret Alphas"***. It's very American and about
the opposite of say a James Bond, the polished and respectable British
gentleman spy. But the Brits do have Rowan Atkinson's Johnny English, so maybe
it's not so much a cultural thing as a universal personality type thing.

The contrast between the two types is classic. It's the uncouth Yankee Doodle
Dandy embracing his own buffoonery of which he's accused and fully owning
it&#151;even as far as singing it about himself. When it works, it can be one
of the most confounding personality types on the playing field, full of
non-traditional and unexpected moves. A real wildcard. Anti-patterns that work.
How terrifying is that? Naturally, they're disliked automatically by their
opposite.

One day I realized I had technical powers that some of my highly esteemed and
vaulted technical coworkers didn't, at a place called Scala (an old Commodore
computers spin-off). That made me formulate a few theories and put them to the
test. If I made it impossible to ignore, deny or otherwise bury the river of
sales leads that were coming in, we would be on the way to profitability and a
company turn-around. Wow! It was like I whacked a hornet's nest.

I was met by as steady flow of mysteries, like parts disappearing from my
computer overnight. Webmasters don't need audio, I was told. I was stunned. I
had stepped right into the turf of the second most jealous gatekeeper I ever
encountered. If I was Inspector Gadget, you might think of my particular James
Bond villain as Claw. Claw was highly regarded in a tongue-in-cheek sort of
way, and known as the fount of all knowledge, both right and wrong. I only ever
witnessed one other person ever stand up to Claw, a guy so smart he ended up
working on a secret operating system for Microsoft called Midori (the real
deal). So while Mike went off to Seattle to school Microsoft in OSes, I was
stuck with Claw, the soundblaster stealer of the night.

This was in the early-to-mid 90s, and the Web was in its infancy. There was
certainly no Google around to make experts of the intellectually inquisitive. I
was a young punk, and I was a bit of a bookstore rat. I read a lot of books,
and the computer section of Barnes & Noble and Borders was my Internet. Java
Corba? Let's see... Orbs? Public static void? Applets? Blech, no thank you! How
about PERL? Flip, flip, flip. Hmmm, now that's more like it. Maybe. I was
mustering and marshaling my forces and I look back to what I was able to
accomplish in those days with rosy reminisce. It all blended in with the Amiga
computer, a tool I really loved. Unfortunately, much of it is just setup for
heartbreak.

As the months and years ticked off and all the things I was doing to help
company profits were inexplicably undermined, it gradually dawned on me that
this dude's primary skill was that of subterfuge and subversion. You're
literally starved for resources like memory as your computer is downgraded
overnight. 

It was a rude awakening I just wasn't ready for. I couldn't believe we weren't
all aligned on the side of a profitable healthy company. But I later learned
that bilking gullible Norwegian ship builders out of the next "bridge loan" was
kind of a sport with them. When such such a reprehensible concept is calmly
explained to you with a suppressed pride in their faces, the best you can do is
hope that your own poker face is as good as theirs and doesn't give away your
disgust.

Learning that triggered me and brought the A-game out in me. Let's first
acknowledge everything you accuse others of is a projection of something you're
doing yourself. It's a classic psychological phenomenon. And yes, I am terribly
fearful of being a fraud. Perhaps that's why my obsession with tools and
resisting planned obsolescence. So many people are could be less of fools than
they actually turn out being if only they didn't have their efforts foiled by a
system that's designed to make them fail. 

This was a period in my life I talked about in a recent video as my "great
twenty-eights". Many people go through them, and the sensitive artist types
tend to clock-out during these years. You know you're turning 30 soon, do lots
of introspection, and bear-down on your shit in a panic like you're on a
permanent Ibogaine trip. Over-sensitive artist-types who feel the pain of the
world commit suicide. Obnoxious punks like me with something to prove bear down
on it. Everyone else settles down and raises a family.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="dmWLlEDoEt0" %}

Bearing down on my mission as I did, I mastered my tools and outperformed
everyone's expectations to a degree where I'd have called myself the unofficial
president and CEO of that place for awhile. It was because they were blowing
off legitimate pre-qualified sales-leads at a criminal rate while I was being
compensated on a percentage of company gross revenue. You can imagine. As I
exposed this fact, there were those who wanted to hang me out to dry. And they
tried. Oh, the stories that got back to me. But I was fortunate to have a
representative of those Norwegian ship builders step in and let me finish my
act. Gerard was the closest thing to a real mentor I ever had.

Well, as it turns out, that one particular dude who played Claw to my Inspector
Gadget (oh yeah, Inspector Gadget was based on Maxwell Smart) decided to shut
me down big-time with what I've come to understand as a series of classic
Machiavellian strategies such as discrediting you behind your back with lies,
and trying to rig the game against you. I'd do things like schedule a vacation
I didn't take just to demonstrate the timing of the things that were going to
go wrong in my absence. Livingston routers don't have to be rebooted every
night, and the fact that they were was a sign of a deeper problem.

Wow, did he get a rude awakening. A series of crystal clear "if this than that"
demonstrations where I 100% predicted the outcome happened. Dude got a stern
talking to, but inexplicably remained in his position.

But alas, when someone holds an entire organization in such a grip of fear as
he did, even the exact medicine an organization needs can come off as poison,
and ultimately and ironically, I looked like the bad guy. Becoming your enemy
to contend with your enemy is a stinky poo poo thing. I'm only still
recovering.

Even acknowledgement that I was the one that architected the financial
turnaround wasn't enough. There was no amount of money I could make staying
there to make it worth it. Even the righteous and the vindicated can die from
poisoned waters. And it wasn't long after that when I took an opportunity that
came up in New York City.

That dude, Claw, was the first and last of a truly pure archetype I've ever
encountered, the classic gatekeeper type mentioned above. While he wasn't as
talented as he thought (and maybe neither am I / projection), he wasn't quite
an imposter either. In fact, he was the first to clue me into the importance of
the vi text editor, and the SciFi write Vernor Vinge by recommending the book
*Time Wars*, which I highly recommend (as I do *A Fire Upon the Deep*, now more
than ever). He was a very smart guy, but he was also a very insecure guy. I
learned so much from him about gatekeepers.

In the years since, I've learned that very similar behavior has his emanates
from anther personality type who can't walk the walk at all. Claw could walk
the walk, maybe 50% of the time. Gatekeepers keep gates for a reason. They can.
The other type? Call them the posers. They cheat and look for loopholes, and
take the credit for the work of others and leach off of them. They're the ones
that absolutely oppose you drilling into detail. At least Claw was a detail guy
right up until he didn't like the details I was exposing.

Both of these types of folks have had major issues with me in the past. They
always think Secret Alphas of the world are the posers. They themselves are
posers and think they recognize their own kind.

You know who else is a Secret Alpha? Detective Lieutenant Columbo, the old
Peter Falk TV Columbo character... just one more thing. Whereas the Maxwell
Smart character succeeds despite himself (an accidental Secret Alpha), Columbo
succeeds because of himself (a deliberate Secret Alpha). It is a cultivated
personality he uses to get people to underestimate him.

I don't do that on purpose. It just happens. Few that I interact with really
realize what I am, until perhaps they witless me using vim/NeoVim. The "oh
shit" moment by the imposter/gatekeeper-types is so thick you can cut it with a
knife at these times. With respectable people who simply pegged me wrong at
first glance, there is an equally palpable "Oh, he's one of those" moment. It's
the Columbo "just one more thing" moment, sort of given to them as a gift so
they can adjust accordingly. Make me your resource! I actually do serve greater
organizational causes, as I never quite embraced the entrepreneurial thing for
myself. Stay humble, if that's to be believed.

You know who else does this? Mad Scientists? 

Yep, the stereotype of the mad scientist or absentminded professor so
popularized by Einstein are secret alphas of the first order. I think that's
why the mad scientist image is so popular. If you had the power to blow up the
world virtually by thought alone, wouldn't you adjust what you project to lower
the threat-level? Why not look like a buffoon if you're confident in yourself?

Bumbling buffoons. Mad scientists. Secret Alphas. The truth is often the exact
opposite of appearance. The smarter you are, the more likely it is for you to
appreciate the advantage of projecting such an image, precisely to be
underestimated. It's just intuitive. It's natural. Nature produces camouflage
all the time. A scary example I've been noticing is the attitude of AI-pundits
shifting their worry from AIs that pass the Turing Test to those that pretend
not to. Same concept. Machines will do this. They'd be stupid not to.

> Poser and The Secret Alpha agreed to have a battle.  
> Poser said that Alpha had stole his nice new rattle.  
> Just then flew down a monstrous crow, as black as a tar-barrel;  
> Which frightened just the Poser so, he said he must skedaddle.  

You know a poser by any attempt to corner them and drilling down on details
being meet by a rapid exit due to prior commitments that are so much more
important than you. Watch for this. It's a 100% guaranteed tell.

Gatekeepers are different. Any drilling down on details with semi-talented
gatekeepers results in attempted quick invalidation of whatever you say. It
doesn't matter what it is. They have very polished language-skills, rife with
practiced fallacies and logical errors. They're very good at it. 

The rapid shoot-down and invalidation of anything you say is the most classic
and predictable. When faced with it, a Secret Alpha has to decide quick whether
to let them see you using vim. Sometimes detente can be struck. Just convince
them you don't want that damn garden behind the gate. You're just chasing some
rabbit and you'll be leaving them alone.

A still-panicky skilled gatekeeper will try to plant the seeds of your demise
in the form of saddling you with some impossible seeming Herculean task that's
supposed to be right up your alley, right? It's a trap. From their
semi-authoritative position, they know the difficulty of that task and is even
perhaps something they themselves couldn't do, and it's been playing the role
of the mythical unicorn. Your success or failure unicorn-hunting will be the by
measure by which you are judged. It has been arranged. If you desire your "one
more thing" Columbo moment, they just handed it to you, LOL. 

But be careful. Turn the trap around on them and give them a graceful way out
if you can. No matter how right you are, you're still the outsider. Poisoned
waters are poisoned waters, as I learned too well at Scala.

I find it worlds better to gently befriend such gatekeepers. They're not
*really* Columbo's murderer suspects. They're just nervous fellow human beings
trying to maintain their image and hold onto their jobs. As long as the rewards
are large enough to go around to everyone, it's better to let their efforts to
tank you mysteriously fizzle by you just being you and doing what you do
without feeling the need for the big reveal and dramatic conclusion to the
episode. 

Gently help them realize that the hound they're trying to throw off the scent
and confuse is a very different and potentially dangerous breed of mutt than
they originally thought. Don't reveal all your cards, but give 'em a wink. It's
got to be emotional. You're not appealing to their rational human-animal side
of their brain with good ol' Pavlov's methods. You're reaching into their heads
and traveling down to their lower down their upper-brainstem and lower limbic
system, their amygdala and pituitary gland that knows hunger and fear. This
inner animal has to "get it", and associate you with getting food, not having
it taken away. Anything less and you'll always be bathing with the crocs.

If you're a hound in pursuit of details, don't get thrown off the scent.
Recognize those things that are designed precisely to do so. Sometimes it's
just peer pressure to get you to fall in line like everyone else in the
gatekeeper's feif... or "the pack". "Do you run with the pack or do you run
alone?" they'll ask. Well, I run alone is the proud answer. Anyone truly
creative does. Sure, it's lonely, but then you rejoin the pack to share your
findings for the benefit of the whole pack. It's okay to run alone.

Groupthink and pack mentality is the source of stagnation and the enemy of
progress, and indeed survival, through times of great change. Everyone should
watch the movie `The Croods`. It's easy to invalidate the lone wolf, and the
pack leader incumbents have a lot of power to do so. It's not in the pack's
best interests, but pack leaders care more about their leadership position.
Consequently, lone wolfs visibly picking up scents is terrifying. It's those
pedantic details the hound uncovers that makes all the difference. 

And so in that spirit, I'm going to do a quick 80/20-rule sweep on in my
journal chopping and publishing system this morning. Let's start with automatic
category identifying. No matter how harrowing and significant years like 2020
are and Ubuntu versions to 20.04 are, numbers don't belong in my site's
category master-list. Okay... next post. Drill down on those prev/next arrow
details.

<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/moving-all-openai-completion-calls-to-one-function/">Moving All OpenAI Completion Calls to One Function</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="None">None</a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/imposter-syndrome/'>Imposter Syndrome</a></h4></li></ul>