---
date: 2023-05-14
title: A Few Little Kitties I Know, And The Lessons They Taught Me
headline: Learning Life Lessons from the Kitties I Know
description: I've learned many important lessons from cats in my life, from Scooter who taught me how to control my roughhousing to Eri who has taught me to be a better parent. In this article, I explore the idea of cutting catapult ropes and how to use the wind of your own abilities to move forward in life. I also discuss the importance of documentation, and the importance of having places for things.
keywords: date, Sun May 14, 2023, title, A Few Little Kitties I Know, And The Lessons They Taught Me, cats, pet, lessons, MikeLevin.in, Pipulate.com, Levinux.com, amygdala, Roomba, LinkedIn, Facebook, Levinux fan page, Github, Moz, Amazon, Adi, Fortress of Aditude, Tardigrade Circus, consistency, physical environment, bedroom, standing desk, New York, Billy, Sammy
categories: seo, git
permalink: /blog/a-few-little-kitties-i-know-and-the-lessons-they-taught-me/
layout: post
---


Okay, the lightest touch cataput ropes? I need to be able to drop people into
any of the 3 websites in play: MikeLevin.in, Pipulate.com or Levinux.com and
have it very on-point, with an end-in-mind new situational circumstances. 

What is that circumstance? Create something of obvious, inherent and of
self-evident value that's receiving enough peer-validation to prove it to those
motivated more by fear. It can't just be more writing. It's got to be
compelling on that amygdala level. 

Do various Roomba-passes, as if you're about to post to LinkedIn, dropping a
link to each of these sites. Think as if you were about to try to mobilize or
motivate the thousand-or-so fans on the Facebook Levinux fan page. What would I
ask them to do and why? Oh, wiping out those stars on Github. Such
self-sabotage. But that's okay. It's nothing I couldn't get back 100-fold with
a little effort.

Least effort! Release built-up potential. Roomba-test-runs... Oh, of course! My
local physical environment... where I last ran roomba... my bedroom!

On my first day with Moz, I received a standing desk I orderd from Amazon and
threw out my back trying to lift it up the stairs. It's still in the box and I
still don't have a great place to work. I'm giving over the enitre livingroom
to Adi as their Fortress of Aditude. Their bedroom is too small and tends to
get cluttered, encouraging of moving around. But the living room is this big,
vast, potentially clear space for... for all kinds of possibilities! The
science lab and the enticement into the Tardigrade Circus idea again.
Consistency over time!

So follow Roomba. The standing desk goes in my bedroom, of course! Oops, a cat
just crawled onto my lap immobilizing me. It's purring away. What's that Eri?
That's a good idea, and the Angels are broadcasting their feedback down to me
though you? Yeah, I think so too.

> I'm building better blogging  
> To replace a bygone era  
> Where your CMS is flogging  
> You to take up something clearer,  
> So you catalog your cat tails  
> In one file for the hashing  
> Using YAML for the data  
> And then Jekyll for the lashing.  

Did I say cat tails. I meant cat tales!

Okay, full Eri appreciation, pets, and gratitude sent out to all the cats in my
life who have taught me so many important lessons, from Scooter who taught me
not to rough-house around cats least they cut open your face and have to be put
to sleep through no fault of their own, to Nermal who taught me my parents
didn't know shit about where was safe for a kitten and the emotional damage
that can be done to a child who accidentally closes a door on it.

There was Merlin, who I'm so sorry I gave up when I "moved off to follow my
dreams," to Scala where I traveled a lot, but for whom it wasn't worth giving
up a cat. Billy and Sammy were my redemption when I moved to New York, and they
each took on one aspect of my personality with Sammy being quite self-important
but insecure (projecting Alpha) and Billy being a sweet mush-ball (Omega or
secret-Alpha).

Then there was Charlie. We liked to say Charlie loved affection but hated
people. It wasn't true, not until the right people were around Charlie. Then
Charlie loved people. Charlie had a tough first 8 months in life and never got
over it, but eventually got to be an outdoor cat again at times (never at night
and never unsupervised because of that wildlife) when I moved to the Pocono's
and it turned out he liked to sample every form of protein at his disposal.
Charlie finally came on his own in his final days in that house.

That brings us to today. First there was Lynnie of the lockdown era. Lynnie
manged to get outside, totally through faults of my own trying to get this
cat-tent set up she could get into through a cat-door. But it was imperfect and
Lynnie liked to get out. And Lynnie was attacked by a hawk. Lynnie survived,
and I'm happy to say she's not gone the way of Charlie, scared for life.
Besides a bit of skittishness, Lynnie's loving both the affection and the
people.

Eri, named after Eri of My Hero Academia, whose powers are to "rewind", I feel
a very strong opportunity to rewind some of the more negative opportunities I
had to know cats in my youth by being the parent my parents never could be. Eri
has in fact emotionally rewound a lot of myths and assumptions humans tend to
weave around our pets of being "evil" or "hating people" or "scarred for life".
Sentient creatures like cats, although not being able to speak our human
languages back at us, understand a lot of what we're saying, if not in words,
then in tone and emotional context. 

Cats know the stories that are being told about them, so try not to go calling
them "dumb" or "evil" or any of that other nonsense for which they're going to
have to be pegged-with, painted as, and carry around with them for their entire
cat lives. It is our responsibility to help even our cats become the best they
can be.

When we cut catapult ropes, it's not without aiming. That aiming is with at
least a rough visualization of the end that you want in mind. You can go
through life just bobbing on the waves, taking the current wherever it takes
you. Worse still, you can assume the strategies of an ambush predator and wait
for someone whose got their act together but is otherwise hapless to the
dangers of those waiting in ambush to hop on their boat and freeload. People
who have got it together are magnets for freeloaders.

Once you've visualized where you're going, how do you actually start to move in
the bobbing currents? Well, you raise a sail into the wind of course, and you
start overriding the natural direction the maths of the surface-bound
(buoyancy, water-tension & gravity). By raising your sail into the wind, you're
using that part of you that's different from any of the other flotsam and
jetsam floating around, which lacks the same abilities as you.

But if you've got it together for yourself, you're a free ride for someone
else. Remember that. They are out there and gunning for you. If they can't ride
along, they're going to try to take your boat, even if they lack the skills to
use it themselves. Oh maybe they can put on a good show temporarily and
convince you, but you've gotta go read "I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla
Sollew", the single most important and under-read Dr. Seuss book.

So I've thoroughly mixed the metaphors of sailing with cutting catapult ropes.
By the end of this article, I will have significantly changed my life by
putting together that standing desk in my bedroom. Again, by the time I finish
this post, the desk will be assembled and I will have entered a new chapter in
my life, the standing-desk chapter.

This not a dependency for my work, but honestly with having let Adi take over
the living room, I need this to have a sort of workspace and focus that my
current work calls for.

It is important to document:

- ***That*** ideas were presented.
- ***To whom*** ideas were presented and ***when***.
- ***How effectively*** the message was communicated and received.

When you document a thing, there is liable to be freaking out and a kind of
attack ensuing. This is because those for whom the lack of documentation
enables their behavior gets scared shitless that the documenation exists and is
liable to be used. 

You can recognize these attacks as attempt to divert attention to something
else, usually ***perceived*** weaknesses of yours that they've been sitting on
awhile and think they can get other to come around to believing or seeing it
their way.

Don't let such cheap diversionary tactics dissuade you. Take any freaking out
as strong indication that you are on the right track, and go into higher levels
of observational, experimental and documenting mode. Be as Watson describes
Holmes, that bloodhound on the trail of a scent. Even if you don't attack back,
and you really never should... does Holmes?... do what Holmes does. Recruit the
help of Scotland Yard, and even shares the glory when he can.

Do not retreat from attacks, such as they are designed to drive you to do. Are
you going to let the bluster of blowhards rule you? If you pull on a thread and
it starts to unravel, keep pulling on it. You've found the lynchpin, the key to
it all.

Are you in such a situation? Preform a test. Buy something form Ikea with
someone you're not sure is a freeloader or a life companion. Freeloaders do not
clean up for themselves. They are stuck in that child-like state where an
over-hovering parent did everything for them. This is why Ikea furniture so has
the reputation as a relationship ender. Start putting it together. Or if it's
them putting it together, go get the trash bag and start throwing away and
recycling all the unwrapping garbage.

Freeloaders don't clean up after themselves. In this way you will be
demonstrating to them that you care about your collective environment, the
space which you share with them. Hey, that's the reason you were at Ikea in the
first place, to better your lives through improving your environment, right? So
it's only natural that if you're the one putting it together, then they'll
gladly make it a nice pristine and appealing environment when it's done. I mean
it was hard enough to put that thing together, right? You don't now want to be
tripping over that box and all that those white static electric clinging foam.

Easy test, right? It will end your marriage asking for them to help with that
clean-up. You are the one doing everything. You did the driving. You did the
loading and unloading of the car. You're putting it together. And you're damned
well going to be the one cleaning up afterwards too... or not, because they
don't care. Am I right or am I right? Oops, is that person not who you thought?

Here's one for you. You throw out the trash as well. Go get a trashbag and
recycling bag. As you unwrap the Ikea box, you're holding the trash anyway.
Instead of dropping it on the floor, fold it up and put it in a trashbag. It
would hardly take any more time than not putting the trash in the bag, but this
is a trigger. 

You'd think it was some grandiose personal affront that you'd want the nice
place that you worked so hard to make nice and are working now to make even
nicer is all shit because you don't want all the shit around when you're done.
If someone's motivations become completely baffling to you, there is by
definition something else going on than you can see. Its something in their
head you're not clued into, or maybe even able to be clued into because your
brain just works differently.

Have places for things. Not that you have to be an organizational freak, nor am
I prescribing a static lifestyle with a big tower computer and multi-monitor
setup. Quite the opposite, as your experience reading my material gradually
paints the picture of, the place for things is ultimately in your mind, in a
very Dune Mentat way. But Sci-Fi is Sci-Fi and we can talk about why NeoVim
turns you into a Dune Mentat later. But grab that dustpan and brush. Know where
it is? How about a nice bedside table so you know where your glasses are when
you wake up. Is that being denied to you?

You just might be dealing with an agent of chaos. Agents of chaos work against
having places for things, for it represents preparedness, thinking ahead,
ability to respond well and generally have your act together. If somebody
doesn't want you having your act together, they will attack your places for
things. It is an attack. Do experiments. Put a bedside night table of just your
own next to your bed and watch what happens. Keep a dustpan and brush under the
kitchen sink and watch what happens. If you're not burning all your time
looking for things, it's not going their way. Places for things!

This is not blame or excuses. This is recovery, healing, regaining balance and
doing even better now given the life-lessons learned. Under the stress of such
prolonged attacks that you don't want to believe are happening because it's
really quite unthinkable, your brain gets thoroughly scrambled and you lose
touch with the real you. Sympathetic vibrations amplify, resonate, and become
visible ***about*** you and the people you're around, whereas the opposite,
antithetical vibrations dampen and subdue and lower the volume on your real
self.

Coincidentally, the sympathetic part of the autonomic nervous system that
prepares the body for stress-related activities. Sympathetic is fight or
flight. The other side you actually ***want*** to activate, which ironically
gets activated by sympathy is the parasympathetic part of your nervous system,
haha! Freeloaders who are quite the opposite of sympathetic drive your
sympathetic nervous system into fight or flight, but because you can't believe
the reality of that because of who its coming from, you dull yourself. You turn
down your emotional receptiveness and vulnerability, then they're going to
attack you for being unemotional and distant, haha!

The way out of this is to be organized, first in your mind. Read books and get
the opinions of others. They will hate you for it and attack your books.
Opening a book and starting to read it is a sure-fire trigger. Another good
test. Go grab a book you've been wanting to read for awhile and actually take
some of your time (yes, you do have it regardless of what you're led to
believe) and start reading. Watch what happens. No matter what label or excuse
is put on the reason for stopping you, you will be stopped from reading.

Correcting course? Well, reading of course! Start with reading. They can't keep
your phone from you, and with an OLED phone screen set to a very energy-effect
black and a big white readable font on the Kindle or similar app, you can read
anytime, anywhere. Don't lose the habit or the love. Of all things you can do
to keep yourself organized, doing so in your mind should be first, and can be
easiest. Themes in literature about how "they'll" even try to take that away
from you can be found in the pop-culture book The Circle, a lampoon on the
Google culture. The closing chapter of the book is quite poignant. Then of
course there's the immortal paragraph of To Althea, From Prison:

```
Stone walls doe not a prison make,
        Nor iron bars a cage;
Mindes innocent and quiet take
        That for an hermitage;
If I have freedome in my love,
        And in my soule am free,
Angels alone that sore above
        Enjoy such liberty.
```

Alice often gave herself very good advice, but she'd very seldom take it. That
is the purpose of this journal for me. Somehow or other, I managed to move my
journal into vim back circa 2010 when I was re platforming onto Linux, Python,
vim and git, although I barely even knew it, forging the timeless path as I
was. And so now I give myself this advice:

Be careful what you post in YouTube, because that's what's watched much more
than this. The ability even just to read a page like this top-to-bottom is
antithetical, as they say to freeloaders. Oh sure, they'll find its existence
and forward it people as some sort of proof of something, but I am quite
confident that any rational mine with enough patience and open mindedness to
get to this point in my writing has gotten to, they're going to understand the
circumstances of the situation a wee bit deeper than maybe the
weapons-against-you seeker may have intended.

Everything that is important or meaningful to you is at the top of a hierarchy.

The tippy-top bit that you're used to thinking about, because it has some
symbol or label there that makes it easy to refer to, is surface detail.

Everything is like that. Every word, every picture, every person and lifeform. 

Yeah, but what does this mean? It means you will be discredited for having such
thoughts. Deep thoughts are an offense, and all that must ever be believed or
credited is surface details... crafted language which lies. Symbols which
compromise deeper meaning to be expressible at all, and therefore become
parodies of themselves and easy targets for lampooning and satire. 

All of this goes directly to the point why the vi/vim/NeoVim text editors are
not merely put down by agents of chaos and those corralling you to a fleecing,
it is an affront. That such a thing can exist that can let you organize your
thoughts, your mind, your code, your story, and in a way where you don't have
to pay anyone anything, and it's not tied to any particular piece of hardware,
and that it requires long-won skills that validates a world-view they don't
believe in and just can't believe exists, well. It's the sailboat on the
rolling waves.

They can hitch a ride on a car or a boat, and when they get tired of you, they
can easily knock you off. But if that car or boat is a vehicle of the mind,
whoah than oh boy! Well, just like they'll tell you they read the book when
they only saw the movie (or are planning to if you dig deeper), they will tell
themselves that vi/vim/NeoVim couldn't be that hard. Hey, if you can do it then
they can do it too, and they'll learn it and all your skills, and then just go
take your job. Get into the same field, maybe run for president, you know.

But hard-won skills are hard won. The real-deal and genuine-articles remain
real deals and genuine articles. And posers remain posers. If your vim skills
can't be quickly picked up like toy-writing environments like Word and Docs let
you, they figure the grapes must be sour anyway.

But reality is reality, and there's no denying that there's a rich text editor
history here going back a half-century. Perhaps there's some substance there? A
wee bit of truth? Competitors from Emacs to VSCode want to ***be*** vim. Right?
Evil-mode in Emac's case, and vim bindings, vim plugins, vim help in VSCode.
Embrace and displace. Classic ambush predator.

What does Alice tell us? Well right from the opening chapter, Alice tells us
that if you're going to be in the game, which requires deviation from the
status quo, you're going to encounter oddballs, and you're likely to be one of
them even though you may not prefer to think of yourself that way. None of his
is in the Disney movie by the way, so if you're a poser who wants to think you
"get it" because you can remember seeing the movie, think again. Wow, I should
really consider doing a dramatic reading of Alice online.

The movie is really quite good though, too. If you want to know what
gaslighting is, it's Alice joining the Mad Hatter and March Hare's tea party,
and being uninvited as she is, she's asked a riddle and allegedly "invited in".
Oh goodie, she's got "an in". So Alice repeats the riddle to which the Mad
Hatter and March Hare call her ***start raving mad***. Classic gaslighting.
Classic projection. 

There was so much more situational context of which Alice was not aware when
she joined the tea party, and she was being "set up" for a fall. They cast her
out before... before what? It was really a forgone conclusion. The Mad Hatter
and March Hare knew they were getting rid of Alice from the moment she walked
up. It was just an experience for Alice to have, perchance to learn from and
become better off for it.

Better off? The good little Alice dutifully left like she was supposed to and
the good old boys of the patriarchy continue smacking each others backs and
smoking their cigars. Yes, better off! If you want to have a party, entertain
your own damn self. Don't let others define what a good time is. Clean cup,
indeed.

Let's assume for a minute that you're in a situation like Alice, unsure of
yourself, in new territory that's rife with good ol' boys quite content with
their party, oh say bilking Norwegian shipbuilding investors out of the next
and the next and the next bridge-loan to make payroll. But that was so much
easier than actually working. Nobody wants to say it out loud... that is, until
they do because there's some sort of pride in secret knowledge. They just want
to show off. 

And so you're sitting there thinking, if this captain of the ship, this leader,
had the very sales-people they lunch with, follow up on the torrent of
sales-leads I was generating. We wouldn't be in that shameful situation, gq and
I'd be making a lot more money to boot. 

You realize that you are Alice at the Mad Hatter's tea party. Your whole reason
for being there is a ruse. They're not ever going to pay out what they promised
because you were being set up for failure in the first place. Imagine that for
a moment, okay?

Why is a raven like a writing desk? Because it provides a shallow premise to
gaslight you when you answer, or even just repeat the riddle. You're stark
raving mad. It's a set-up.

One must really soul-search to decide whether to stand up to gaslighting and
the patriarchy. Oh, another Sci-Fi book to read is *This Perfect Day*, by Ira
Levin. Ira's much more famous for *Rosemary's Baby*, but *This Perfect Day* is
the one you have to read if you want to learn about principled people standing
up to the patriarchy. Go, Chip! Anyone gonna read the book to get the point?
Not in this imperfect day, they're not. It's all about cheating, getting the
surface detail benefit, and denying yourself the real "internal" reward of
having the experience.

Mad Hatter, mad matter. Mad matter, Mad Hatter. These characters represent
those lovely folks who both ascribe value to things, like their party and their
tea, their seating arrangement and indeed even each others social company
precisely so that they can exclude others and find self-worth. The Mat Hatter
is simply mad about "things". He has things you don't and if you have something
he wants but can't have, he's going to ruin the works by smearing butter in.
Only the best butter, of course he tells you with a smile. There's absolutely
nothing wrong with this picture.

Shallow people like the Hatter can only make the illusion of value in things,
and usually material things (mad hatter mad for matter), and then thus only
find relationships with other people through those same material things. The
matter parties! If they want to control or punish you, they can only do it
through the matter and not through some deeper connection.

See, these mad matter types are really quite stupid. They think matter is just
as important to everyone else as it is to them, and so they take that matter
away from you as punishment. You see this all the time in proprietary
subscription software. Adobe for example makes you base all your "internal"
artistic skills and craft on "external" and quite take-away-able tool. Sure
while it's software and ***should*** flow from machine to machine and decade to
decade, it won't. For 1000 little reasons Adobe will make you pay to remain a
graphic designer or video producer. It can't just be "in you" like oh say
Inkscape, Gimp or Blender.

The March Hare is there because he validates the Mad Hatter and gives him
power. Bullies often have friends who empower them and egg them on, like Biff
Tannen and his gang in Back to the Future, Johnny Lawrence and his gang in The
Karate Kid, Ace Merrill and his gang in Stand by Me, and Scut Farkus and Grover
Dill in A Christmas Story. Do you understand what I'm saying, McFly? McFlyyyy?

The online mental health community has unfairly labeled these enablers Flying
Monkeys after the other, and much more American-style coming of age story of a
young girl set in a sort of Wonderland, but here across the ocean we call it
Oz, and it's a real place. Oh, the movie wouldn't have you think so, but L
Frank Baum went there in his books. I mean, he made it not a dream. No
ambiguity. Oz was real, and it was a evolving place having modern problems as
the world modernized. And the flying monkeys were quite decent folk, perhaps a
bit mischievous, but noble and enslaved by the witch with a special magical
device. There it is with power being held over people with hardware, again. 

The catapult rope I'd like to cut is a hard-and-fast education, a full college
degree of valuable information that over time, with the layering-on with infuse
and imbue you with a new outlook, a new love (for non-material things), and a
new way of approaching and tackling problems in life. A timeless way. A
non-material way. A way that if there is an afterlife, you can indeed take it
with you.

And my standing desk is assembled. Wow, it's on wheels! And room for all 3
laptops open and in use at the same time! I can hardly believe it! sigh of
relief and end of such a long journey. This particular cutting of the catapult
ropes is perhaps one of the best gifts I could have given myself today. It has
the health aspects of standing while I work (all day!) and even when I'm not
working because that's where so much of this writing comes from. 

Whereas many people watch TV and partake in social media as their pastimes (am
I over-generalizing here?), I use that same discretionary skills on things,
which when taken separately don't look like much, in actuality, they've been
winding and winding and winding, putting tension in the machine. I mean what if
all that Netflix binging time was put into developing some loveworthy skill or
other? What if what you did for relaxation wasn't just playing into the mad
matter program, or the information brain-rot social media equivalent.

Maybe people just don't know about these deep recesses of Wonderland where such
thinking and behavior that leads to ever-more decoupling from particualr
hardware and ever-more love for the thing traveling between the hardware is
even possible. Maybe the just don't know and cutting the catapult ropes is my
hopeful thinking that once aware... what? More people will? I'll be some sort of
pied piper leading people I deeply care about away from the fleecing.

Maybe. I don't know. Guess I got to visualize that part more. All I know is
that it all starts with my standing desk being built, and the parallels between
that and cutting catapult ropes being large in my mind. Symbolism is often very
important. Change daily activity in your mind (read), and behavior will follow
(environment improvements). Compel daily behavior change through environment
change, and habits will follow (write). Change habits and a new life will
follow.

![Parallels Between Building Standing Desk And Cutting Catapult Ropes](/assets/images/Parallels-Between-Building-Standing-Desk-And-Cutting-Catapult-Ropes.jpg)


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/what-do-i-mean-by-cutting-catapult-ropes/">What Do I Mean by Cutting Catapult Ropes?</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li></ul>