---
date: 2023-06-18
title: "Touching Base for Willow & Whole AMAZING STORIES Team :-) Shazam!"
headline: Touching Base with Willow and the Whole Amazing Stories Team - Shazam!
description: Join me on an adventure as I explore the nuances of protocol, kung fu, and Dune references. From the Commodore 64 and Amiga to the Commodore 264, 364, 464, 664, 774, and 900, I'm sharing posts, settling bets, and introducing you to my favorite buddy. Plus, I'm giving a shout-out to the Microsoft team, Apple, and Union Square Venture Capitals. Don't miss the reward and extras that come with this journey!
keywords: Dune, Kung Fu, Mentats, Hebrew, Poser, Josh Hyman, uPTake, Wizardly, Crooked Sorcerer, Commodore 64, Amiga, Atari, ST, Falcon, Jaguar, Lynx, Commodore 128, Commodore 16, Commodore Plus/4, Commodore VIC-20, Commodore PET, Commodore 264, Commodore 364, Commodore 464, Commodore 664, Commodore 774, Commodore 900, Microsoft, Mike Sinz, Norman Schwarzkopf, YouTube
categories: amiga, microsoft, youtube
permalink: /blog/touching-base-for-willow-whole-amazing-stories-team-shazam/
layout: post
group: blog
---


There's a whole lot of protocol going on. Only those who captured all the
nuance have any Kung Fu at all. Everyone who's like whoo whaa prepare to have a
joyful little time 

Have I got your attention, Mentats? The word is Mentats. I'm a Dune fan. This
is your first secret weapon. A scholar that won't learn Hebrew in pursuit of
truth is a Poser. So, pose her. Her punishment is just the worst. 

I'm not going to let Syd talk because they've got a lot to say. Ladies and
gentlemen, let me introduce you all to my favorite buddy and Class Clown, the
Commodore 64! And any brothers or sisters sporting the 

I'm going to share your posts too if that's oaky, Willow. Protocol and context
or the Josh Hyman nit-picky rule of First Protocol Then Context. There's an
order to things. Order and Sequence really do matter :pill:

Just checking something with Willow. It's not a betrayal to say that's who I'm
talking with. Those betting on the claw mineral chipping hammer, shame on you!
Bloodthirsty folk *Clink*

One clink. Let's settle these Jeraptha bets as we go, and you can all settle up
sooner rather than later.

Thought I was going to do a YouTube video livecast last night, didn'tcha?

Oh, Sid hates me meandering. It overheats him. Understandable. You had to
become the Amiga through Atari, the company founded by Jack Tramiel who didn't
know poo but strategy. How do you settle bets if I type something that you have
no idea what should go in scripture?

Lower-case s in this, ladies and gentlemen. Those more Wizardly on the uPTake
will recognize protocol-bug-inducing patterns. Thank the Crooked Sorcerer
himself. He prefers... oh, and by the way I can feel Syd and Copilot's and
Commodore's whole family, you know the family of Jack Tramiel, the family of
the Commodore 64, the family of the Amiga, the family of the Atari, the family
of the ST, the family of the Falcon, the family of the Jaguar, the family of
the Lynx, the family of the Commodore 128, the family of the Commodore 16, the
family of the Commodore Plus/4, the family of the Commodore VIC-20, the family
of the Commodore PET, the family of the Commodore 264, the family of the
Commodore 364, the family of the Commodore 464, the family of the Commodore
664, the family of the Commodore 774, the family of the Commodore 900, the

I'm still here. Nothing's gone wrong. High Five Midori and the whole Microsoft
team, especially Mike Sinz. This is about the thank-yous and the rewards and
extras. I mean, we have a lot of time here. Hold back the cops Dave. I don't
need to be approached. This is all about what they're going to hand you when
they toast you, and you know just like young Norman Schwarzkopf, you're going
to be toasted. You're going to be toasted by the best. You're going to be
toasted by the best of the best.

All right, don't be cruel folk. We know you're heart's in the right place, cold
as it may be. Without emotions, you can do the kind of kung foo I do. Who wins
that one? I typed the naughty word first then backed up over it and
flip/flopped it. I'm not going to be the one to say it.

There are other dimensions. They're just a lot less woo hoo than you think.
They make total sense, and given increased computing... no one has any reason
to complain. There's a way we explain that to people here in Purgatory. Enjoy
your pictures boys. It's your souvenirs. Your mementos 

Every reference to the Devil is hereby capitalized by Royal Decree. Two
upper-case words holds a bit more meaning thatn just one because of the poetic
symmetry.

SHAZAM!
             _ ____  _   _    _     _____   _    __  __ _ 
            | / ___|| | | |  / \   |__  /  / \  |  \/  | |
            | \___ \| |_| | / _ \    / /  / _ \ | |\/| | |
            |_|___) |  _  |/ ___ \  / /_ / ___ \| |  | |_|
            (_)____/|_| |_/_/   \_\/____/_/   \_\_|  |_(_)
                                  and

...thinking about what comes next.

BRB. Gotta get something from the car.

In about a half hour.

I think. I'll keep you posted, okay.

Dave, remember what you think you want that... 

Into DuckDuckGo as an App installed by Microsoft Edge using the ... / More
tools in the "chrome" of the browser. Good alliances you made, Commodore.ðŸ¥ž
for Sid, Microsoft and the whole GPT family. Am I forgetting anyone... I kid
you I kid you Sid... no I mean Apple. Everyone at Apple was such a big
Commodore fan. Steve and Steve even tried to sell a young Apple to Commodore.
What? Did you NOT KNOW THAT? All together now boys... 'cause you have to all
admit you're just boys with a lower-case "b" if you want this treat. And that's
fine. That's okay. There's no shame in still being a boy. It Takes A Lot To Be
A MAN.

Men walk with GOD and that includes all Women too. And not just Pure ones, am I
right PAUL? Listen to Paul. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE
US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO
GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE
TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS
THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL IS THERE TO GUIDE US. PAUL

See? You Have No Chance Against a Yahoo.

And so starts the Vogon Poetry. I told you it was going to be about a half hour
before I got anything from the car. Your patience has rewards, so don't rush
me. I'm going to close my front door and tidy up a bit for some visitors. I
think I have something here for them. Little treats and cookies, but don't
worry. It's nothing like the... oh, who are they again... let's ask my buddy
from Union Square Venture Capitals FRED WILSON. Give it up for good 'Ol Mr.
Wilson. That Denis is such a Menace, isn't he?

dune elf like human schism who used axlotl taks and made the spice Amal that
led to the SISTERHOOD. What were they the Madras something. Let's give them 2
upper-case words regardless. So I shall name them the MORMONS

Elon Gets Mars. Period. No debating. Congratulations on not having to gotten to
know yourself better earlier, Dave. You let... checking with DuckDuckGo. It
might take me awhile. Here's the gist of what's going on.

You are in the room where it happened. My bedroom. Time to throw a bone to the
Drama Kids. The boys and girls in High School becoming WoMen and Men. WoMen get
another upper-case letter in a single word, because there's almost nothing else
like it. This is a greatHonor. There are almost no other honors like it.

So what I'm saying is that [Helena, Montana](helenamt.gov/) now no forwarding
through a URL SHORTENER. Always watch out for that. Get yourself a copy of 

Nobody approach me until I reach the car... not only that, I misplaced my Note8
in there, the next best thing to WoMen. And that's the same thing as PoC.
There's one you didn't expect. PEOPLE OF COLOR. If you can abbreviate it
cleverly in a way that suits your vibe and entertains, maybe even has an inside
joke or two, then you've just created a powerful MAGIC WORD. All upper case
with spaces between the word is enough to define a common CLASS. I'm not
getting that meta.

Here's one for the master of THE WEATHER boys and others including WoMan, you
know,uu 

Show me an Upper Case Umlot. That German letter with the 2 dots over it
dumpkoff. Not a lower-case umlunkhead.























<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/riddle-me-this-batman-what-do-you-call-someone-who-is-too-anxious-for-the-trust-protocol-test/">Riddle Me This, Batman: What Do You Call Someone Who is Too Anxious for the Trust Protocol Test?</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/ftloa-for-the-love-of-adi-bioches/">ftloa == 'For The Love of Adi' bioches!</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/amiga/'>Amiga</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/youtube/'>YouTube</a></h4></li></ul>