---
date: 2023-02-27
title: First Day on New Job & I Throw Out My Back!
headline: 25 Years of Tech Experience Leads to New Job at Moz.com
description: I'm a 52 year old SEO expert who has been working in the tech industry for over 25 years. After working at a spin-off of Commodore and a PR company in NYC, I created the Web 2.0-era writing suggestion tool HitTail. I have since done interesting things such as crawling websites directly into Google Docs with API-joins. Today, I'm starting a new journey as an employee of Moz.com and am excited to use my skills and experience.
keywords: SEO, Web 2.0, Writing Suggestion Tool, HitTail, Content-Management System, Tracking-Gif System, Messageboard System, Public Relations, Python, Linux, Vim, Git, Macbook Pro, Amiga, Commodore, 360i, Google Docs, API-Joins, NYC, Reddit, Mozilla, Employee, Tech Industry, Search, Reputation-Building
categories: search, vim, git, seo, nyc, linux, python
permalink: /blog/first-day-on-new-job-i-throw-out-my-back/
layout: post
---


Hello World! Today is my first day as a Moz.com employee. I'm 52 years old and
got into SEO when I was about 27 years old and it was mostly about AltaVista.
What drew me was the fact that I had recently been studying the work of the
legendary business consultant Peter Drucker and locked in on the concept that
the mission of any business is to get and keep customers. This went for pretty
much any organization or non-profit. Sure, there was whatever its stated cause
was, but at the end of the day if you're not getting and keeping "customers",
you're going away. Having your website come up when words were plugged into a
search tool in the course of researching felt like the epitome of valuable
skills and a good place to invest my time.

Fast-forward 25-years. It's a friggn' quarter-century later. I have not made my
fortune. I have not built empires. I have not invented world-changing
technology. But I have achieved my goals and am happy. I have internalized over
the years all the tools, methodologies, techniques and skills it takes to get
and keep customers via Web search and the many related facets such as
reputation-building over the years. Since those days of AltaVista, Google has
come and refined that circa 1996 web search landscape adding AdWords for huge
profits, taking over much of the mobile platform with Android, taken a few
swipes at the Desktop with ChromeOS, but not much else. The world is
surprisingly unchanged over those 25 years, the same way automobiles are
greatly unchanged for a hundred years.

Habits die hard. Something can not be just twice as good. For one technology to
replace another, it must be at least 10-times as good. This is a truth often
spoken by Andrew Grove, one of the people responsible for Intel's stellar rise.
Sea-changes are required to motivate/force people onto the next step in
evolution. Good-enough is a powerful effect lasting decades or centuries. While
humans will adapt when forced, we collectively work much more like a
predictable animal. This sentiment is reflected in everything from old SciFi
like Asimov's Foundation series to quant billionaires making money off the
stock market from these principles today. The actions of individuals are hard
to predict but the behavior of the masses are much more predictable because of
statistics.

I've had regrets that I have not taken advantage of my insights more in an
external investment sense. I could have invested in Google or PayPal back in
the day. I new Google from its kindergarten logo days, PayPal from its days as
X.com days and Amazon from when it was contending with CDNow to be the
preeminent hardgoods web outfit. I even was reading the Reddit threads during
the rise of Bitcon. Dropping a few dollars into any of these could have set me
up for life, changed the course of my life, and most probably sapped all the
motivation and life-drive out of me. Over the years I've come to believe,
perhaps out of cognitive dissonance, the mental discomfort of holding
contradictory belief.

The words of Bob Ross come to mind: Ever make mistakes in life? Let's make them
birds. Yeah, they're birds now. Who knows what life brings. I could have ended
up a very unfulfilled person, never actually taking the steps to
***internalize*** the tools and skills that drew me to the field in the first
place. I loved the Amiga computer from Commodore computers, which was actually
in the kick-ass hardware legacy of Atari computers with a brand new flavor of
software which while not Unix, was very close to it (TRIPOS). The combination
resulted in a hardware/platform software that was loveworthy and motivated me
possibly more than anything else in life before or since. Then it went away.

That kooky social multimedia feeling the Amiga instilled through its visually
stunning software and the community that sprung up around it was a sign of
things to come. Almost everything today, even on mobile and with all the crazy
media interaction, was going on in one way or the other with the Amiga as the
2012 book on the topic, The Future Was Here, made clear. It explains a lot why
I feel such fatigue at all the excitement these days over TikTok and related
tech. I'm watching the boorish bombastic hyperbolic honeymoon that happens when
kids discover wonderful new toys. Very little about video editing, augmented
reality effects and the like excite me. I had both the Video Toaster and the
Mandala virtual reality system in the same Amiga 2000 in the early 90s before
even the rise of the Web.

The underlying text-based system on which the Amiga operated is another story.
I never got tired of that. The tenants of Unix were mostly all there. It was
hard to separate the incredible (for the time) graphics of the Amiga from
everything else about it that was so love-worthy, but as it turns out all the
graphics stuff doesn't age well but all the text-stuff does. As angry as I got
at Commodore for bungling the Amiga and even at the Amiga developers for
failing to move forward the state-of-the-art to keep pace with PCs that were
leapfrogging ahead once the Web, GPUs, Soundblaster cards and the DOOM
1st-person shooter game hit. From 1991 through 1996 the nails were hammered
into the Amiga coffin and Commodore went out of business.

So there I was with the love-worthy bits of the Amiga deeply internalized and
the Amiga gone. I went to work for a Commodore software spin-off company called
Scala that ported its software to the PC and went after the "digital signage"
market, a term which I helped coin. It was in this capacity that I really
delved into SEO because it was an emerging industry and nobody quite knew what
to call it, so I wrote about it a lot from every angle and published those
pages in perfectly optimized and linked-together compelling story-telling
sequences. Just merely by writing this content and presenting it well, Scala
would get and keep customers. Well not quite actually. As it turned out the
over 10 sales-leads per-day I managed to generate were all being ignored.

I was running both Scala's website and Intranet at this time. I didn't make
Scala's first public website, but I hired the guy who did. When he moved on I
took it over. I created a tracking-gif system like Google Analytics (Urchin in
those days), a profoundly search-optimized content-management system to make the
website. I made a messageboard system like Reddit with a customer relationship
management system overlaid in which salesleads could be assigned to product
dealers (called value-added resellers or VARs) worldwide. By 2004 I had
basically created an internal product that was much like HubSpot, SalesForce
and WordPress combined. It even did the bill-of-materials for factory builds
and shipping, so it was even business logistics.

And I did nothing further with that software and neither did Scala. Were it
extracted like David Heinemeier Hansson did with Ruby on Rails, I could have
been at the head of a massive movement and empire years ahead of the rest of
the world. But I went to New York City to become a vice president at the public
relations company that launched Amazon.com. They saw what I did and was
impressed enough to give me what I considered an opportunity out of my reach in
my wildest dreams, being a mere graphic design undergraduate and not an MBA or
other fancy credentials. And so I was in NYC marketing agency life. Ugh!

While I made it work for a good number of years, I could feel my soul gradually
being poisoned by the slick marketing agency life. To remedy this I used those
parts of my earlier skills to create a Web 2.0-era writing topic suggestion
tool called HitTail. It worked with the old tracking gif technology that worked
so well before Google switched to secure web search, an event labeled as "Not
Provided" in which the keywords that brought a visitor to your site were no
longer directly provided but had to instead be retrieved in a less useful and
informative version through Google Search Console (Webmaster Tools in those
days).

While my HitTail tool had a 16-year run, it was not enough to save the company
and I moved onto other hotshot agencies in NYC such as 360i, the company that
taught you that you can still dunk in the dark. I did a few interesting things
for them involving crawling websites directly into Google Docs with API-joins
before such things were commonplace. This got 360i into the upper-right
quadrant of the 2012 Forrester Wave report and together with their real-time
marketing turned them into a top-tier marketing agency that was subsequently
acquired by Dentsu Aegis. But the changing filed of SEO hit me hard as the good
data-sources were being cut off and I switched into 360i's tech department.

Somewhere in there I got married, had a kid, and left 360i. Almost all my old
tricks involving Microsoft Active Server Page (ASP Classic) were now passe. I
felt betrayed by Microsoft whose new .NET stuff was profoundly complicated in
comparison and all the new tech that was popping up like Ruby on Rails felt
wrong. This was not long before NodeJS came onto the scene and had I waited any
longer to commit to my next platform I might have become yet another
undifferentiated full web stack developer. Instead, having gone on a hunt to
recapture that Amiga-magic with modern tech, I discovered Python, re-discovered
Linux, and found my way to the vim text editor and the reality of the
pervasiveness of the git distributed version control system. The Linux, Python,
vim & git combo felt right.

Something that must probably be said here is that I'm a slow learner. I learn
slow and learn well. I like to think perhaps I learn deeper and like to
internalize my tools like muscle memory when driving a car perhaps more than
most out there in the field of tech appear to. Otherwise there would be cries
of bloody murder at how often whole branches of tech are suddenly obsoleted
leaving those internalized parts of you as "dead" parts. How long is ReactJS
going to go on as an atrophied part of your body after the next 4 or 5 web
frameworks replace it? You might say it's okay because they're all JavaScript,
but I would say that there's something more subtle going on that has allowed
Python to become special to me in my heart, but not JavaScript no matter how
much I've tried over the years.

Wow, okay. Transitions are funny. Today the work-provided Mac arrived. I have a
lot of Windows laptops in my life from over the years. I really like being on
Windows now because Windows subsystem for Linux (WSL) is really coming of age.
It's still a bit flaky with the Linux terminal sessions just freezing and
becoming completely unresponsive from time to time as if the Linux VM crashed.
I guess this is possible. Usually it can be gotten back with the wsl --shutdown
command, but it's a sign we're in a primitive state with WSL and Microsoft has
not worked out all the details, especially I believe with systems making use of
support for systemd. In other words, I feel systems running and making use of
systemd services are more flaky and that's why Microsoft doesn't want it
enabled by default. They can't have the public at large experiencing what I'm
experiencing. But that's just my belief.

So I'm settling into a circa 2020 Macbook Pro. Interesting. Whereas my Windows
laptop went with the camera to unlock, my Mac is starting with fingerprint.


<div class="post-nav"><div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/microsoft-is-disincentivizing-installing-chrome-changing-default-search">Microsoft is disincentivizing Installing Chrome & Changing Default Search</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/the-iron-is-hot-for-my-love-of-tech-book">The Iron is Hot for My Love-Of Tech Book</a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/search/'>Search</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/nyc/'>NYC</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/python/'>Python</a></h4></li></ul>