---
date: 2023-07-20
title: Hear Oh Israel, Reciting the Shema Is Not a Time for Talking
headline: "Reciting the Shema: A Moment of Pride and Pain in My Child's Bet Mitzvah"
description: As a parent, I was cut off from my child after their Bet Mitzvah on June , 2023. I had no information or responses to my requests. After doing some online searches, I found a video accusing me of acting irrational and making threats. I am now trying to figure out what happened and to defend myself against the accusations.
keywords: date, Thu, Jul, 20, 2023, Hear, Oh, Israel, Reciting, Shema, Time, Talking, Child, Missing, Bet, Mitzvah, June, 11th, Communication, Cut, Off, Driving, Guest, Staten, Island, Ferry, Luncheon, Closed, Tipping, Guys, Kitchen, Group, Event, Mall, Summer, Carnival, Parking, Lot, Supplied, Chaperones, Follow-on, Beverages, T
categories: journaling, child
permalink: /blog/hear-oh-israel-reciting-the-shema-is-not-a-time-for-talking/
layout: post
group: blog
---


I thought my child was missing this time last month. I was cut off from seeing
them after their Bet Mitzvah on Saturday, June 10th, 2023. All communication
was cut off after I drove one of my guests to the Staten Island Ferry and then
went back to the luncheon, where I found everything closed down. After tipping
the 2 guys in the kitchen, I considered joining the group where I thought the
event was carrying on, in the Staten Island Mall where there was a Summer
Carnival in the parking lot. I had very well supplied the chaperones of the
mall follow-on event with beverages. But since tension was a little bit high, I
decided to steer clear.

Why were tensions high? Because during the Bet Mitzvah at Temple Etz Chiam,
named after my Dad which had special meaning because it was 2 days after the
31st Anniversary of my Father's passing. His name was on the podium of the
Synagogue and my child was receiving the first Non-Binary Bet Mitzvah on Staten
Island (according to them), and I was so proud. I was supposed to be called to
the podium by my name, מיכאל בן אברהם (Michael ben Abraham). I provided this
information repeatedly and accepted the Aliyah honor and the chance to say a
word of congratulations to my child. But when the time came, they called me up
by the New York pronunciation of my name, "Mike Levin" and I corrected the
rabbi. I think think this is when somebody got mad at me.

During the ceremony, which is the Graduation or Coming of Age celebration in
the Jewish tradition, the child about to be an adult leads the congregation in
prayer for the first time, using the most holy of all Jewish prayers, the
Shema. The Shema is so simple and beautiful that even the most illiterate Jew
(if there is such a thing) could read it, and it is our duty to do so 3 times a
day. Idea being, a Jew can never say the Shema too much. It goes:

The transliteration goes: Sh'ma Yisrael Adonai Eloheinu Adonai Eḥad ("Hear, O

Israel: the LORD is our God, the LORD is One."). See? It's so easy you can
write the prayer and the translation in one quick sentence. So when my child
was reciting it, their voice quavering because they were quite literally the
rabbi was talking over them with a member of the audience. It was one of those
frozen moments. My child's voice leading the congregation in prayer was
quavering more and more and the rabbi continued talking more and more over the
Shema, seemingly oblivious to the fact that the child was leading the
congregation in prayer. I was in the audience, and I was the only one who
shushed the rabbi. It was disgusting.

The rabbi apologized to me right there during the ceremony. The rabbi knew he
was wrong and was not only committing one of the most egregious blasphemies in
the Jewish tradition, but was doing so during my child's formative moment. This
is one of the most symbolic and important moments in a Jewish person's life,
and the rabbi was talking over it.

So after the miscommunication regarding my name, and the rabbi's apology, I was
on the bema (the stage) and I was supposed to say a few words. But the opening
and offer was never given to me to say the words, even though this too, just
like my Hebrew name was discussed and agreed upon in advance. So I spoke up and
asked to say a few words. Those words were the Shema and "Congratulations".
Nothing more. And the rabbi even shook my hand and embraced me on the stage.
Everything was fine between me and the congregation, but it appears I triggered
off a series of events that led to me being cut off from my child.

Now I am 100% agnostic, but there is something Jewish deep inside of me that
asserts itself from time to time. I have not retained much of the prayers,
tradition, nor even ability to read Hebrew. But the Shema always stuck with me.
It's holiness and direct message and "setting the stage" for all that is Jewish
to follow, is something that burns in my core. 

This rapid-fire series of events, perhaps combined with being at Etz Chiam,
named after my Dad for he went by Charles in English, even though his Hebrew
name was Abraham, and it being 31 years and 2 days since his death, and the
emotional roller coaster of disrespect during the my child's Graduation, and
the first for a Non-Binary in Staten Island, perhaps made me emotional. But not
so much that I didn't have a lovely luncheon where everything seemed fine.

Now these are my stories and they are mine to tell. Every time any contention
like this comes up, there is an emphasis on not sharing this in social media,
nor sharing my story in any way with anyone. I think this is part of the
process of isolating and cutting people off from their support network. So I
embrace telling my stories and assert the write to do so. I am not trying to
reach out or communicate with anyone but my support network, and the people who
might be able to step forward to help me in some way. I do believe I need to
assemble an army of character witnesses who can attest to my character and
stand with me in the face of what appears like it might be character
assassination. The claims against me are horrifying.

Okay, so think through today. Getting that lawyer is job #1. But I have to
catch them up on the entire situation, and so this article will help me do it.
Vomit out as much information as possible. Digest and encode in words the
events of the last month or so. Publish what I can here as the overarching
introduction to the situation. This is a result of a "what's most important and
why" exercise. 

The distractions are pretty constant, which is funny because I'm just home
alone with my cats right now. Digital is a distraction. It's profound how much
of a distraction it is. If you provide even a little opening for it, it will
wedge itself in and take over. It creates a kind of "snap mode" where you're
just snapping from one thing to the next. It's a kind of digital ADHD.

Thanks to Copilot for some of that last paragraph. Copilot is an excellent
writing collaborator, but also a symptom of the problem. Everything in life is
a 2-edged sword and generalities are always wrong, haha! Don't miss the journey
because AI's are flashing red dots at you. Hold firm and enjoy being in the
golden twilight of Western Civilization. Don't walk away from what may be last
chances (I am approximately half-way through life). Actualize into existence
the world you want to live in and the life you want to live. Fancy words to say
take over the reins of your life. Okay, that was my woo paragraph. Bag to
pragmatism.

The primary thing about finding a lawyer at this time is speed. Follow up with
the lawyer that declined on my case. It was because they believed there may be
a statute of limitations on the incidents I was talking about when I first
engaged them. But they may be able to take on my case just to defend me in the
upcoming family and now criminal court cases. There's also LegalShield. I
should engage them pronto. Make sure my membership switched from PA to NY.

Also, just get yourself friggn organized in any ways that you have not already.
You need to make command-central, so that any question asked to you about any
topic, when such-and-such happened, you can just go to the right place and
answer the question. That's a weak point right now because my head is still
spinning so much from the attacks. The bullying is so intense that it's
difficult to focus on anything else. But I have to. I have to get organized and
I have to get a lawyer.

Okay, I got a recommendation on a lawyer from a trusted source. It's still
Thursday. Make a lot of things still happen this week. Make your bedroom your
base of operations. A lot of people don't do this because they can't fall
asleep in the same place that has other connotations, but not me. I can fall
asleep on demand with lights on and people talking. That has actually saved my
sanity over the years as sleep was forever more cut into smaller and smaller
chunks. I have a lot of coping mechanisms that I have developed over the years
under more intense stress than this. Tap your resources. You have them.

It's still only about 11:00 AM on Thursday, July 20th. I can work with this.
Engage the lawyer and schedule the consultation ASAP. That means NOW!

To try to figure out what happened on June 11th when I was cut off from my
child, I did a few online searches and found this video posted online that
talks about me having strange behavior and making threats. This is the first
time I have seen [this
video](https://www.tiktok.com/@that_gay_otaku/video/7248317769601649962), and
if someone just tried to communicate with me directly, I think a lot of this
could have been avoided.

The accusation is that I have been acting irrational and making threats. They
cut me off after the Bet Mitzvah. They blocked me from all social media. I
don't keep alternate accounts so a ban makes it look like my child disappeared.
There were no replies to text or emails. I had zero information nor responses
to rational and reasonable requests. I was in the dark.

I think this comes down to attempts to tell me what to do and how I can behave.
This is about trying to tell me what to do and what is right and wrong. This is
about pretending to take reasonable and rational actions, but in reality it's
about control. It's about trying to control me.


















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/small-directional-adjustments-on-rudder-of-life/">Small Directional Adjustments on Rudder of Life</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/get-organized-with-80-20-rule-sweeps/">Get Organized with 80/20-Rule Sweeps</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/journaling/'>Journaling</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/child/'>Child</a></h4></li></ul>