---
date: 2023-05-19
title: Helping Our Children Fall In Love with Math by Loving It Yourself
headline: "Discover the Magic of Math with the Lorenz Attractor: Uncover the Power of Free Will and the Butterfly Effect!"
description: Help your children fall in love with math by loving it yourself! Learn how to use language, toys, games, TV, movies, books, and teachers to create a positive environment for math. Understand the butterfly effect and the law of unintended consequences to help your children develop a strong, intuitive mental model.
keywords: math, English language, language evolution, education, parenting, society, culture, government, fiefdoms, royalty, criminal protection-racket, Earth's orbit, Sun, day, night, time, space, sine wave, universe, Gödel, Escher, Bach, artificial intelligence, creativity, college, Engineering, Physics, Calculus, drop out, bridges, brains, thinking, Asians, genetics, Kickstarters, Boolean Logic, Babies, digital world, ON's
categories: ai
permalink: /blog/helping-our-children-fall-in-love-with-math-by-loving-it-yourself/
layout: post
---


Things are difficult by nature. If things were easy, everyone and everything
would be doing it, and it would lose meaning. If everything were too difficult,
nothing would ever happen. There is a vibrating edge between the two, and we
live there. Especially we humans, because it is precisely this wobbling between
almost impossible and almost almost ruin that is the Earth's orbit around the
Sun. It's the lovely, miraculous stage upon which sentient life that can
appreciate it such as us have evolved.

Life happens in such wobbly places. It's the sine wave of the universe. Folks
hate math, but life is math. Math is what you use to describe and perchance
have insight into this pendulum-swinging oscillation between the two, which we
see mostly as day and night and the years of our life ticking by. We feel it as
the dimensions of time and space in which we live. But we do indeed see and
feel it, and it is indeed a sine wave, and it is indeed the stage of life.

Why math is a hated and reviled subject is first a direct result of the society
in which you live, which is itself a result of the evolved tools of thought
that culture uses to think. In other words, language. We hate math because the
English language evolved against the backdrop of royalty and kingdoms, which
are in fact a form of a criminal protection-racket formalized into government
and social order. But they're really fiefdoms. You get a fief of land and we
take your grain.

Give me geld, peasant! Serf! Peon! Pee on... pee on you... that's what they do,
those royals. They don't want you to know math because they don't want you to
know how much they're stealing from you. That's English. That's the tool for
thought that you're raised on. You hate math because you're raised to hate
math. It's not a conspiracy. It's the evolution of language.

Asians aren't inherently or genetically better at math. It's that their
language is more suited to it. I'm not going to re-write ***Guns, Germs and
Steel*** here. Just go read it for yourself, but know that math is not what you
think it is. Another example is how all the college Engineering 101 and 102
freshmen courses such as Physics and Calculus are designed to make you drop out
because they don't want incompetent engineers building bridges and stuff. Fair,
but all our brains could do it if we were raised to think that way.

Now it's not always society as a whole that let you down. Sometimes it's more
local, such as your parents or your school. No matter how rotten the English
language is for math, if it's integrated into your life right from the start,
with the right toys as an baby, the right games as a toddler, the right TV and
movies as a child, the right books as a pre-teen, and the right teachers a
teenager you can overcome the handicap of English. But if you're raised by
someone who themselves "hated math", you're screwed. 

And that's colossally unfair. What's worse is that solutions are there all
around you, but you've likely closed your mind to them. You've been conditioned
with negative reinforcement responses to close your mind to good solutions.
It's pure Pavlovian conditioning, like ringing a bell when you feed an animal,
they will begin to associate the ringing bell with the positive experience of
food. Negative reinforcement is to use the word "math" and presenting the old
schlock canned lessons that are as boring as the teacher is incompetent. You're
being conditioned to hate math by the very people who are supposed to be
teaching you math. It's a crime.

It's the unfortunate circumstances of your early-life (all English-speakers of
lower socioeconomic conditions). It's not your fault, but more importantly,
it's never too late. The cycle can be broken right here, and I show you how.
Unfortunately, it's as much time coming out as it was time going in, so the
sooner you start righting this wrong, the better! I'm 50, so I'm personally
going to be 100 before I get down calculus. Perhaps you can do better.

With the right plan, the right tools, and the right instructor, we can do this.
Unfortunately, such plans and tools aren't so obvious to everybody, and such
instructors aren't so common. But they do exist. You just can't plop a kid in
front of a screen and hope it happens. It has to be totally integrated into
their lives. And really you've got to find the love for math yourself if you
want your kid to feel the love. They learn by example, remember? Do the maths
in front of them if you can. Happily, that can just be playing with toys.

It's Pavlovian conditioning again, but the right kind. You know what kids want?
To not be bored. To feel like they belong. To feel proud of themselves. To
laugh and play.

There is no reason "just learning math" couldn't be a bi-product of becoming
part of a really cool group of like-minded kids staving off the boredom, either
in-person or online in this age of COVID. The reason this isn't the same thing
as just plopping them in front of a screen is the actual social connections
that are forming, the group dynamics, the one kid egging the next on to greater
and greater things. The right instructor is the one who knows how to make this
happen.

Group-dynamics is rule #1, especially if you're fixing problems that have set
in from a wrong-minded upbringing. Do they have existing social groups where
appealing, but still math-leaning activities can be introduced? Do they have
friends who are already into math? Do they have friends who are into something
else, but could be brought into math? Or perhaps you live in an area with
world-class robot clubs, or chess clubs, or even art clubs.

Because art is math. Music too. Especially, music. It's just not taught that
way. But honestly if I were to delve into ***Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal
Golden Braid***, I'd have to talk about artificial intelligence and the nature
of creativity, and this article would run all out of control. Suffice to say,
you can teach math very effectively by teaching ***around*** it with other
subjects that have more surface-appeal for children.

I've seen wonderful Kickstarter for a book called Boolean Logic for Babies, and
wow is it awesome, colorfully and interactively building up page-by-page the
story of ON's and OFF's and why that runs everything in the digital world. But
the world isn't only 1's and 0's, so you have to follow-up immediately with
something to prevent false dichotomies. In other words, things aren't nearly as
black and white as the very ***useful lie*** we call ***digital*** electronics.

Did you digital is a lie? It's a complexity-reducing trick we do so that the
principles of boolean logic (switches) can be applied to the real world. You'll
hear the word ***thunk*** used a lot in computer science. It's the sound of a
deep, rich analog reality being reduced to the false dichotomy of 1's and 0's.

***Natural electronics*** is ***analog*** by nature. Digital electronics is
artificial, and so is a form of art, which only makes it natural that it is
today leading works of art... artifacts, in fact that exbibit intelligence. But
I digress. 

So to fix this common lie of digital supremacy in nature, the Boolean Baby Book
needs something like a slide whistle or swanee whistle to show the infinite
range of sound. It's going to drive you crazy for a bit, but hey that's the
price of being a good teacher.

When you give a curious mind a swanee, they're gonna want a saxophone. And then
you've gone and done it, sparking an interest in music. You could end up a
Starfleet Admiral or something. Music not for you? Well, that wonderful
slide whistle lesson can lead very naturally into looking at that sound on an
oscilloscope. If you ever want to quite literally ***draw*** the connection
between math and music without saying the dreaded triggering ***math***-word,
just throw the soundwaves your kid's making with whatever instrument up on the
screen of an oscilloscope. Do you not know what an oscilloscope is? And you're
teaching your kid math? I question your qualifications. And don't pretend. I
can tell.

Okay, so then an oscilloscope is too expensive, you say? And indeed these were
$1000-devices not long ago. I remember back in maybe 1990 or 91 when Commodore
computers was going bankrupt and they were liquidating all their assets, I made
a B-line straight for the lab oscilloscopes but was blocked by someone who
already had claim to them, but I knew didn't really need ***another***
oscilloscope in their lives, so they snatched it out of the hands of a kid who
could be using it today with their own kid, these old-style cathode ray tube
ones of the sort particles like electrons were discovered with. Oh, I may still
dig one up.

But no, it's Kickstarter to the rescue again, because even though a true
hardcore oscilloscope is analog by nature, the digital world has driven very
good digital oscilloscope emulators of the real analog thing down to like $100,
quite accessible for a learning device. And you can even make the difference
between analog and digital oscilloscopes a lesson in itself, drawing parallels
between regular guitars and electric guitars, real pianos and electric
keyboards... the possibilities are endless... oh, I know, I know!

You've heard of the butterfly effect, right? Hunting dinosaurs in the past who
are about to die by natural causes anyway if you have a time-machine causes no
harm, right? But when you return to your own time everything's different
because maybe the dinosaur fell onto a butterfly when your dumb ass shot it.
Another is that if that a butterfly flaps its wings in Okinawa, there may as a
result be a storm that ravages New York. Ask your student to come up with more
of these stories. That's math!

But don't stop there. Remember the aforementioned difference between analog and
digital this-or-that? Well guess what? Without even mentioning math or
computers, you can put one of the greatest toys and cosmic insights in front of
your student to engage, delight, and sneakily lay down some of the best maths
that ever was. And that is visualizing the butterfly-shaped Lorenz attractor,
thus giving one of the ultimate examples of... of... of... well, so many
things. Let me explain.

When we say the "butterfly effect" it naturally invokes the image of a
butterfly, right? Something with bilateral symmetry whose main characteristic
is a big flanging wing on each side, right? And we talk about butterflies in
this A leads to B leads to C leads to colossally different outcomes because a
butterfly is such a little thing, right? A dinosaur falls on one. One flaps its
wings creating a little air-current in a far-distant land. Well what if I told
you that the maths behind this both ***draws a shape of a butterfly*** and
reveals the lie in these assumptions. B does not necessarily lead to C. 

I kid you not. It's called a strange attractor, but that it looks like a
butterfly is only just the beginning of the wonder of this story, because in
reality the butterfly effect is bullshit. Why? why... why William... William
Yeats, I believed you but you misled me! As did everybody who's ever told your
about the butterfly effect a certain way because it makes a better story.
Beware the sensationalist! I lost you? Okay...

First verse of The Second Coming by William Butler Yeats:

> Turning and turning in the widening gyre   
> The falcon cannot hear the falconer;  
> Things fall apart; ***the centre cannot hold***;  
> Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world,  
> The blood-dimmed tide is loosed, and everywhere  
> The ceremony of innocence is drowned;  
> The best lack all conviction, while the worst  
> Are full of passionate intensity.  

No, Mr. Yeats. The center ***can*** hold, and I have the maths to prove it, and
you don't have to look at a single number, and it's the most cool interactive
visually engaging and beautiful toy ever invented, and there's a lesson like
the classic vs. electric guitar in here that's more accessible because the
digital version of a lorenz attractor is an easy download on your phone or
quick visit to a website.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="oqDQwEvHGfE" %}

So you see, the center ***can hold*** even if the dinosaur steps on the
butterfly you still will be born. And a butterfly flapping its wings in Okinawa
isn't necessarily (and probably won't) change major weather patterns anywhere
in the world. The fact that either ***might*** is the extreme exception and not
the rule, just as with ***the domino effect***, some developing nation becoming
communist isn't going to unleash a red tide. 

People who latch onto the exception and make you think it's the rule are trying
to make you support war to kill our children and put money into their fat-cat
bank accounts. This both kills your children (a potential competitor) and adds
to the generational wealth being handed down to their children, like those of
Lyndon B. Johnson's and more recently, the Bush's and Cheney's. Blackwater,
much? So math fortifies your mind against social manipulation and improves your
lot in life and that of your children's. The ***butterfly effect is a
fallacy*** because the center can hold. This is a beautiful lesson.

Specifically, if he concept of the butterfly effect is causing you anxiety
because of the false believe that any little move you make is going to have
consequences that spiral out of control, put it to rest. It won't. Oh, it
might, but much more likely you're only ***switching wings***. To get an
instinctive feel of precisely how often and how damaging, watch the Lorenz
Attractor. Play with the apps.

Not all life parallels the particular magical formula I'm talking about:

    dx/dt = s (y – x) dy/dt = rx – y – xz dz/dt = xy – bz

...and you certainly don't have to understand that by looking at it (just watch
the vids and play with the apps)... but many things in life do ***return to
normal***. In this case, they oscillate between 2 "wing sides", but not on
every pass. Every once in awhile the "butterfly effect" causes the little
travelling dot to switch sides. But more frequently it's just going in a little
orbiting circle on one side (your comfort zone), and on a less-frequent basis
it will switch sides. Then it comes back. 

Many people confuse the butterfly effect with ***the law of unintended
consequences***. Perhaps it's just labels and I could make the same argument
about that one. Even when you make decisions that take you out of your comfort
zone, you can always return to it. Maybe not on the first rotation, but give it
2 or 3 more and you can get back to where you were. The most damaging fallacy
of our time is the believe that what doesn't kill you makes you damaged goods,
forever a victim and it's downhill from there. Wrong! It means your mommy and
daddy neglected to give you the tools to steer that dot.

You are not actually following that mathematical formula. You have human free
will, because we don't live in a super-deterministic universe. That's what we
call non-falsifiable and about the same as believing in bigfoot. You can't
prove bigfoot doesn't exist and you can't prove that we do live in a
super-deterministic universe.

So work on the presumption that you have free will, and that you can return to
your comfort zone if you made a mistake. It's not proven by the Lorenz
Attractor, but it does give compelling evidence and a strong, intuitive mental
model. And know that you've been lied to about math by people who don't know
better in our modern age, and by the evolution of your primary spoken language 
over the last 1000 years in a way that says nothing about your natural
abilities, predilections, or what you're capable of.

And most importantly, it says nothing about what subject-matter and things in
life you might find interesting, and indeed fall in love with causing the law
of unintended consequences to work in your favor. 

And finally, the proper way to view the butterfly effect as expressed in the
formula above is with an ***analog computer***. I shit you not. This is a
thing, and it's what Eddie Lorenz first visualized the phenomenon on, trying to
debug inconsistencies he was encountering on a paper printout, thus discovering
two new fields of science: Chaos and Complexity theory. And ***somebody please
kickstart an analog computer butterfly effect toy***, cause I'm in!

There are some beautiful minds out there. Maybe I'll make the whole math
curriculum I have planned for my child actually the story of such inspirations
as Hypatia - Geometry and Astronomy, Sophie Germain - Number Theory, Ada
Lovelace - Computer Science, Sofia Kovalevskaya - Analysis and Differential
Equations, Emmy Noether - Abstract Algebra, Maryam Mirzakhani - Geometry and
Dynamical Systems, Karen Uhlenbeck - Topology, Ruth Lawrence - Number Theory,
Olga Ladyzhenskaya - Partial Differential Equations; and actually learning the
math, just a side-effect.











<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/if-you-ve-gotta-be-a-shoalin-it-s-good-to-be-philadelphian/">If You've Gotta be a Shoalin, It's Good to Be Philadelphian</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li></ul>