---
date: 2023-02-10
title: Unix/Linux Won & Are Now The Rules of The Road
headline: "Unix/Linux: The Unstoppable Force in Tech"
description: Mike Levin is a 20+ year veteran of the SEO industry who has seen many changes in technology over the years. From his experience as a student intern at Commodore to his current knowledge of Intel Management Engine (IME) and its implications for privacy, Mike has a deep understanding of Unix/Linux and its ever-growing presence in the tech world. Read his blog post to learn more about his journey and the impact of Unix/Linux.
keywords: Unix, Linux, SEO, Industry, Technology, Commodore, Intel, Management, Engine, IME, Privacy, Journey, Impact, Development, In-House, Tools, Release, Programming, C, Language, Amiga, AmigaOS, TRIPOS, Multitasking, Ubuntu, Debian, Red Hat, Enterprise, Linux, GPL, License, MINIX, Microkernel, Network, Stack, Windows, System, Obsolete, Pool, Tech
categories: coding, amiga, linux, ubuntu, network, microsoft, journaling, development, seo
permalink: /blog/unix-linux-won-are-now-the-rules-of-the-road/
layout: post
group: blog
---


Okay, wow. It's Feb 10th and my last day in Ziff Davis Audience Development
department. I guess it's okay to talk about now because another division of ZD
was interested in my when my department got eliminated. And that division is...
Drum roll please, MOZ! Okay, write this blog post as if people who know you
(and should know you) are reading it.

Hi, I'm Mike Levin, someone who resisted calling myself an SEO back 1n 1997 and
98 when I made my first static site generator (SSG) akin to Jekyll, but instead
of just stylizing pages it sliced & diced raw data formats like XML into
individual linked-together pages using page titles as the anchor text in
previous / next buttons. For anyone familiar with the early days of SEO, you
can imagine how effective an artistically automated link-shaper was in driving
traffic, and so I ended up having to call myself an SEO because that's where
the best job opportunities were.

So I moved to New York City. I did not productize my slice & dice system, but I
did take jobs where that gave me an edge. It was not only that I had super-cool
proprietary tools of my own, but by having them I was better able to judge the
SEO goodness of client sites. Oh, I also created a tracking system akin to
Google Analytics and a whole web-based content management system akin to Ruby
on Rails or Django which I used in conjunction with slice & dice. Having total
command over my own set of tools made me uniquely qualified to see what was
good and bad about client sites and how they might improve.

And so began my long career of always developing in-house tools for my own use
and for use on my SEO-clients, but never for general release to the public.
Well, I can't say never. One of them, an outgrowth of the Google Analytics-like
product became HitTail, a Web 2.0-era writing-topic suggestion tool for
bloggers. It had a 15 year run, being passed from owner to owner (I didn't own
it) until it was no longer profitable. It just didn't have my tender love and
care for those 15 years as I moved onto other things.

Those other things, in addition to just staying gainfully employed in NYC,
getting married, having a kid, buying a NYC apartment, included repositioning
myself onto new technological tools. I grew up in the era of the first home
game-machines like the Atari 2600 (or VCS for my non-US friends), missed the
Commodore 64 and instead got on the flash-in-the-pan Coleco Adam. My Dad talked
me into it because it was a better deal, and thus started my illustrious career
of falling in love with tech destined to go rapidly obsolete, which was
particularly damaging to me because I'm not a particularly fast learner.

Being a slow learner is not bad. It often means you learn slow but learn well.
But when you're that type of person, you need what you've learned to last for a
long enough time to be worth it. I rely a lot on my muscle memory like one uses
when driving. Now imagine the rules of driving changing like which side of the
road you drive on, what traffic lights mean and such. This is how tech keeping
going obsolete so fast messed with me. It messed me up, man. And it only got
worse with me eventually falling in love with the Amiga computer and going to
work for Commodore as a stars-in-my-eyes student intern. Can you imagine
Commodore going under during that time? Ugh!

Mismatch! Mismatch! Mismatch! Early in life it was the fault of the
circumstances of my birth and my parents and such. After a certain point
continuing this pattern was my own fault. Who knows when the crossover occurs,
but I suspect it's somewhere around 12 years old, the age of my child right
now. At 6 years old I believe that your own autonomy allows you to come up with
survival strategies to just get along in a life where many things are beyond
your control. In another 6 years, you've pieced a lot together and think you
know a thing or two about life and take control in what little ways you can:
circle of friends, media you consume, etc. But in another 6 years, at eighteen
years old, you're taking the reins fully for yourself.

By this time, I tried my hand at all sorts of programming. All the cool
scripting languages I learned on the Adam and the Amiga were gone. The C
programming language defeated me several times. My mind just isn't made for it.
I like things much more like driving a car, where even though the tech from car
to car my vary a little, generally most things stay the same. As dangerous as
driving is, it would be far worse if all the rules of the road changed every
half-decade or so, like they do in tech. Or at least, that's what I thought.

Little did I know it, but I was born less than 50-miles and a few months from
the birth of Unix, by Ken Thompson working in the AT&T Bell Labs facility in
Murray Hill, New Jersey. Unix was in very rough shape then and I was only
zero-years old, so you can hardly blame me for recognizing it for what it was.
Over the years I flirted with Unix, mostly through Commodore which did the
same, but the Amiga computer was my love. Thankfully, much about the Amiga was
lifted from Unix via the TRIPOS.

TRIPOS was developed by PSION (now Symbian) in the United Kingdom and was used
as the basis for the AmigaOS, the operating system for the Commodore Amiga
computers. TRIPOS was known for its advanced multitasking capabilities, which
allowed multiple tasks to run simultaneously and share system resources,
including the CPU, memory, and I/O devices. This made it possible to run
multiple applications and perform multiple tasks at the same time on the Amiga,
which was a key selling point of the computer. TRIPOS was also widely used in
other computer systems, such as the Acorn Archimedes, and is considered to be
an early and important example of a preemptive multitasking operating system.

TRIPOS was developed in the United Kingdom in the late 1970s and early 1980s,
during a time when Unix was becoming increasingly popular. The developers of
TRIPOS were familiar with Unix and incorporated many of its ideas and concepts
into their operating system. TRIPOS was considered to be one of the most
Unix-like operating systems of its time and was state-of-the-art, thus the
AmigaOS was none too shabby, and I consider myself profoundly lucky to have
encountered both the Amiga and the people surrounding it during those formative
years from about 18 years old to 21 years old when I graduated college and my
dad died. Oh the shit hit the fan. I took over his check cashing store during
which time I had to shoot a robber and was sent to jail for having a gun even
though the license I applied for six months earlier finally arrived while I was
awaiting trial.

Now how's that for story telling? AI isn't going to generate real-life
experiences for you. My path to where I am now at fifty-two years old has been
a long and circuitous one. I am what you might call "well seasoned". But unlike
sour old bitterlings, I feel refreshed, renewed and indeed vindicated that the
Unix-like OS stuff I learned long ago has now won. It won in the form of Linux.
And it won specifically because Microsoft has begun shipping Windows with Linux
basically built-in. Windows doesn't technically ship with Linux, but the
underlying "NT" technology.

NT supports hardware abstraction, which allows the operating system to run on a
wide range of computers with different hardware configurations using a hardware
abstraction layer (HAL). Interestingly, this is exactly the thing that allows
Windows systems today to run Linux blended in with Windows proper. This is not
a compromised software approach like CygWin (a wonderful earlier product for
Unix-like support on Windows) but rather a genuine Linux kernel running as if
it were on dedicated Linux hardware.

So if any of you really truly hate Windows know that the shell-game is being
played and that Windows might one day be wholly Linux underneath and you
wouldn't even know it. They'll just one day swap the Windows kernel for the
Linux kernel and attach all Windows software to a display manager like Apple
did when they switched from proprietary OS9 to Unix OSX. It was brilliant when
Apple did it, and it's going to be brilliant again as Microsoft does it... 20
years later (within 4 years).

All this means Linux won. Unix won, but Linux in particular won because
Microsoft chose Ubuntu Linux to be the default Linux on Windows. They could
have hardly made any other choice because the onus for doing this is giving
developers what they want, and Debian-derived Linuxes (which Ubuntu is) are
just so user-friendly compared to their Red Hat Enterprise Linux alternatives.
Also, Red Hat and all the distros like CentOS and Fedora are already associated
with the IBM-camp. There are many little differences between Unix, Red Hat
Linux and Debian Linux, but the biggest one is the software repositories that
are used. Red Hat versions use RPM (Red Hat Package Manager) which many people
know as yum (Yellowdog Updater Modified). Debian uses the dpkg (Debian Package
Manager) which many people know as apt-get (or just apt for Advanced Packaging
Tool).

Unix has the Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) ports collection used by
BSD-based operating systems, such as FreeBSD, OpenBSD, and NetBSD. BSD-based
operating systems were popular in the early days of Unix, but their popularity
declined in the 1990s with the rise of Linux. This was in part due to legal
battles that challenged the BSD license and made it more difficult for
BSD-based systems to compete with Linux, which was licensed under the GPL
(General Public License). The GPL license, which required that derivative works
be released under the same license, helped to spread Linux quickly and widely.
While both Unix and Linux have spread based on their merit, Linux was also
accelerated by its license, which encouraged further development and
distribution.

Microsoft could have thrown their weight behind YUM, APT or PORTS. They chose
APT, as did most of the "non-Enterprise" world. That is, home Linux users
mostly use apt because of the vast popularity of the Ubuntu Linux distribution.
Even as Ubuntu lost popularity, Linux distributions that are "derived from"
Debain (as Ubuntu) was became more and more popular. A notable example is the
RaspbianOS for the phenomenally popular and revolutionary $30 Raspberry Pi tiny
computer designed to be embedded into projects requiring fully capable general
purpose computers. I was the 2nd to unbox the Raspberry Pi on the Internet. The
first person was an insider and not a genuine customer. So I was the first
Raspberry Pi customer to unbox one on the Net.

Perhaps debating such tiny differences between Unixes and Linuxes is besides
the point. It is Unix-like operating systems that won, and they all have enough
in common that it equates to the new rules of the road in tech. Deeper down in
the hardware there are other rules that have to do with partitioning and
managing hardware resources. But those deeper hardware capabilities need an
operating system too, which is of course also Unix-like. In fact, that's where
real Unix is perhaps massively more popular than even Linux without you even
knowing it.

Intel's management technology, known as Intel Management Engine (IME), is a
separate processor built into Intel CPUs starting with the Sandy Bridge
generation, which was released in 2011. The IME runs its own operating system,
which is based on a stripped-down version of the MINIX microkernel. AMD has its
own version and who knows what Apple does, but you can bet it's something
similar.

The role of Unix in the IME is to provide a secure environment for system
management tasks such as power management, system monitoring, and remote
management. The IME operates independently of the main operating system and
runs even when the main system is turned off or in a low-power state, which
allows it to perform tasks such as monitoring the system for potential security
threats and updating the BIOS.

IME has a full network stack, so it can call back to mama or let others into
your computer even while it's off. Yeah, this raises crazy-concerning backdoor
privacy issues, but it also hits the point home: Unix/Linux won. You don't only
get Linux with every new Windows system, but you get a bonus Unix running right
now on your computer while you read this (if on desktop) that you'll never see
or know about. If you're reading this on mobile, you don't gave IME, but you
definitely are on Unix/Linux and your privacy issues are even worse but that's
besides the point.

Point is Unix/Linux won on so many levels that if you're investing your
knowledge and & know-how into anything else, you're waiting to be obsoleted.
What won't ever be obsolete? Unix/Linux. It's the pee in the pool of tech. And
there's plenty of things under the Unix/Linux umbrella that are the everyday
tools of professional tech life.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/start-thinking-about-broader-foss-seo-features/">Start Thinking About Broader FOSS SEO Features</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/beware-coding-in-ai-dependencies/">Beware Coding In AI-Dependencies</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/coding/'>Coding</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/amiga/'>Amiga</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ubuntu/'>Ubuntu</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/network/'>Network</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/journaling/'>Journaling</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/development/'>Development</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li></ul>