---
date: 2023-09-15
title: The Journaling For Life Tool Conundrum
headline: Exploring the Choices and Challenges of Journaling in the Digital Age
description: This article explores the conundrum of journaling in the digital age. From the physical liability of paper notebooks to the security and privacy concerns of cloud-based tools, this article examines the pros and cons of various journaling tools and sets the state for following articles on journaling in one textfile in vim for life.
keywords: journaling, life, tool, conundrum, senses, language, math, Gödel's incompleteness theorems, paradoxes, choices, intelligence, neocortex, instincts, mobility, purpose, meaning, Descartes, predictability, slime mold, computer simulation, physics, humans, individuality, perfection, ideals, limits, mindfulness, written word, drawing, stick, pen, stylus, rain dances, abstract symbols, instructions, building, experiences, chimps, free association
categories: journaling
permalink: /blog/the-journaling-for-life-tool-conundrum/
layout: post
group: blog
---


When we're born into the world, the input from our senses can be overwhelming,
but then we learn a thing or two and start to make sense of things. Of course
you're not going to be able to make sense of things out of the gate. Instincts
and automatic abilities must be relied upon at first. As these help you survive
and information is collected, you can start to sort out, but even that is
initially without the aid of language. 

Think back to your experiences before language. Can you? Some people claim they
can, and if so it's experiences encoded into their memories without the benefit
of language. I suppose it's possible, but memory and indeed thought itself
becomes clearer and more focused once you have learned and internalized the
tools of language. It's a tool that helps you think, remember and make choices.

We've got a lot of senses, more than just sight, sound, smell, touch and taste,
the five famous ones. Your sense of balance that lets you walk upright is
another. Language is a tool that we are predisposed to developing to help sort
out and make sense of all the experiences. In time, this leads to mobility and
the ability to manipulate our environment, get up and walk, feed ourselves, and
the like. The dependencies never fully go away as we are dependent on food,
sleep, protection from the weather, predators and the like.

We grow, accumulating more experiences, trying to make more sense of things and
perhaps trying to find meaning and purpose to it all. Everyone's journey
diverges from the more common experiences of being born to the more
individualized experiences of your own impossibly unique path. We use what we
have learned and know to help guide us on this path. Do we live and die in that
30-mile radius we were born into? Or do we go out and explore the world? Do we
cruise through life on autopilot, or do we stop and think about things?

There are very few things in life that we can know to be objectively true, but
for our own existence in the whole Descartes I think therefore I am sense. But
even then, our observations tell us there are other types of intelligence than
that which this neocortex language-based trick lets us express. While not
discounting all that other intelligence that seems to be embedded into matter
in units as small as fragments of our DNA, this article is about making better
use of the unique "I think therefore I am" type of intelligence we have.

We expressing that sort of intelligence using the tool of language, to which we
are obviously predisposed to acquiring, but which by its own nature helps us
see its own shortcomings. This was gloriously demonstrated in the language of
math in the form of Gödel's incompleteness theorems, but can be simply
demonstrated with "this statement is false". 

Paradoxes seem built into life, especially when it comes to language. The
lesson that that "good enough" must be good enough and you've just got to deal
with it comes to many language-using thinkers eventually. Perfection and the
pursuit of ideals are just that. This existence we're experiencing has
interesting built-in limits. These limits do not need to be discouraging,
merely dealt with. Do not throw out or invalidate the tool of language itself
once making this discovery for yourself. Just know it's a tool with limits.

And so choices arise in life for which you can employ language to help you
decide. Choices are a big thing in this novel "I think therefore I am" way
humans seem to have in a different form than many other forms of life. Sure,
other forms of life have choice. Load models of them into a computer simulation
and you're going to be able to statistically predict them better than you would
with individual humans. Slime mold may be able to optimize efficient routes to
connect resources better than our computer models today, but not by much. The
less "alive" the components of the model are, the more predictable they become
by the laws of physics that we know. The more alive the components, the less
predictable. To be human is to be least predictable of all.

But this lack of predictability comes precisely from the ability to think aided
by such tools as language. Without being able to think something through, your
ability to take the road less traveled (the one that makes all the difference)
diminishes. The more you rely on those built-in facilities of instinct and
birth-given attributes, the more mathematically and statistically predictable
you are. The more you stop and think, interacting with internal facilities you
took the time to develop and nurture, the more you can find new choices to
make. When given two choices, is there a third you didn't think of? Stop and
think. Write it down. Be mindful and deliberate in such things.

Many forms of life have language. Sponges and ants have chemical languages and
octopuses have color languages. Some of these languages are even learned, as we
know certain chimpanzees have generationally transmitted rain dances. Human
languages using abstract symbols for both spoken and written language seem
different in quite the amount of precision they allow us to encode and decode.
We can encode instructions for building things and conveying experiences, and
those can be decoded in ways that let things be built or experienced. It's
pretty cool, I think. And it's a skill like any other that gets better as you
practice.

For the sake of focusing on one thing and doing it well, I'm going to focus on
the written word. I will occasionally supplement this with "drawing" as I do
believe a picture is worth a thousand words. But picking up a stick, pen or
stylus and dragging it over a surface to leave a mark that mimics our visual
sense is more natural than the written or spoken word. Therefore, I'm going to
focus on the written and spoken word, because I believe it activates a type of
thinking that improves our choice-making ability, and which should be practiced
every day. If you choose to do one thing well, you could make much worse
choices than processing your thoughts.

So let's assume you can read and write. You got this far in the article, so
you're doing pretty well already. But now it's time to start articulating your
own ideas. Process the experiences that are held inside of you. Sure, you can
talk to people about things. But then you are subjecting yourself to their
biases. There's no reason you can't just write things down and get a more pure
recounting of what you think and how you feel. It may not come out in great
form at first, but that's just part of the process. Don't be judgemental. Just
forge on. It's not in the editing at this point. It's about the flow.

Maybe start with playfulness and free association. You don't know what you
don't know. And it is the mere process of writing it down that makes the
difference. It's like forcing yourself to talk about a topic. Experiences
through your senses accumulate up inside of you in an unprocessed form. Making
decisions while your experiences are still quite unprocessed is what animals
without symbolic languages. It's valid. It's just not deliberate. It is less
mindful than choices and decisions you might make if you stopped to think. So
sometimes little games to get you going to get into the zone are necessary.

However, this is where the issues surrounding writing tools have traditionally
stopped me. They never really stopped me. Writing by hand into paper notebooks
is always an option, and I actually did do that for years. It's just that this
creates a heavy physical liability. That's going to be a lot of paper notebooks
you have to drag around or make the heart wrenching choice of whether to
destroy some day, or the tedious choice of whether to try to scan or digitize,
which itself is of questionable value if the mere writing down in the first
place was the point. The problems that occur by using physical mediums for
writing in the digital age seem like inflicting yourself with an unnecessary
burden, especially when there are other choices that can make you a quite
powerful in the digital domain.

Powerful in the digital domain? You mean like knowing how to use Microsoft
Word? Or maybe even WordPad or Notepad that ship with computers? Or if you're a
Mac user, Pages or TextEdit? And do you keep files on your local machine? What
about backing them up or working on different hardware? What about when you
only have your phone on you? And what about the proprietary vendor nature of
all this software? And if you're using Google Docs, what about the cloud? Do
you now rely on Google for access to your own journal? And what about privacy
and security? All these questions kept me on good old paper media for
journaling for many years into the rise of the digital age. It's one journaling
conundrum after another.






















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/collecting-keywords-from-a-site-crawl/">Collecting Keywords From a Site Crawl</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/journaling/'>Journaling</a></h4></li></ul>