---
date: 2023-05-14
title: What Do I Mean by Cutting Catapult Ropes?
headline: "Cutting Catapult Ropes: My Journey to Cut the Weakest Link and Achieve Success"
description: I'm exploring the metaphor of cutting catapult ropes and how it relates to my professional trade. I'm reflecting on the opportunities available to me, the challenges I face, and my experiences with cutting catapult ropes in the past. I'm looking to make a positive difference in my own life, the lives of those around me, and the world at large.
keywords: SEO, Metaphor, YouTube, Channels, Audience, Job-Switch, Hardware, Nuances, Details, Catapult, Ropes, Lead-Management, System, Generating, Disseminating, Affiliate, Marketing, CMS, Framework, Zope, Active Server Pages, ASP, Gross, Revenue, Bill of Materials, Manufacturing, Shipping, Salesforce, NetSuite, CRM, Siebel, BAAN, Oracle, Peoplesoft, SAP, Anderson
categories: audience, marketing, seo, youtube
permalink: /blog/what-do-i-mean-by-cutting-catapult-ropes/
layout: post
---


I have spoken lately of cutting catapult ropes. There's an SEO-metaphor for
you. I have sometimes said that I practice my trade on behalf of others because
they pay me well to do it because I am good at it. And so if that is true, if
the time and day ever came for me to do it for myself, it would be like cutting
catapult ropes.

Well, I don't know how true that is anymore and am wondering whether certain
limited-time windows have closed on me, like when taking 2 minutes to record me
doing some stupid magic trick could drive a million views to a YouTube video.
Well, one never knows if those days are over, or whether there are new
opportunities with audience on different channels, or whether there aren't even
better ways to connect with even more copacetically-vibed audiences. You've got
to be running tests. You've got to have many irons in the fire. You've got to
have many plates spinning. Oh, we SEOs and our metaphors.

I had to do a pretty quick job-switch a few months back. My whole department
was dissolved. Hey, it's the times and it happens and I understand. But it's
just like switching hardware I spoke about a few posts back. It's just like
matter not mattering except the matter you take in your body that I spoke about
in the last post. Well this time, it's drilling down on those nuances and
details of cutting the catapult ropes.

There's various parts going into it, and the catapult-rope cutting itself can't
become an excessively deep rabbit hole. That's the risk here, and that's what
I'm lighting a fire under my ass now to mitigate. Another metaphor? Okay,
solving simultaneous equations. Killing multiple birds with one stone. Getting
a 1 + 1 = 3 effect. And to do all this without it becoming too much of a
time-sink in its own right. Too much of a money-pit for those who pay for my
time. And so we bear down and man up.

And we see if we can't really and truly cut some catapult ropes right here and
right now so that when we go "back into work" on Monday Morning, we're
delivering on promises at a rate and with a quality that makes people wonder
whether its really the same person they met coming in. Visualize it. That whole
"being a different person" than people thought has been both something people
have said about me, so I try to advertise it as much as possible going into a
situation so that it's always an eyes-open fair-deal, and I've been shocked by
it with the corollary situation of it not being advertised to me, or in fact
even deliberately being kept hidden from me until I over-committed. That was
Scala. When I realized following up on legit sales-leads was a sort of poison
to them, I was like "oh, I get it now." That was the part they never told me
about. No matter what I did, the weakest link in the chain principle would
always limit their success.

One of my first real catapult-rope-cutting professional experiences was
building an lead-management system, for both generating the leads in the first
place (SEO) and disseminating them out tho "value added resellers", aka Reps or
Dealers around the world. By doing so, I was effectively cutting the weakest
link out of the chain. What I was doing professionally then to make money
amounted to affiliate marketing. But instead of just putting some link on a
lead that showed I generated it, I built and ran the whole website. And when I
say built it, keep in mind this was like 2000. There were no CMSs or frameworks
that could do this job (except maybe Zope, but that would have been too deep a
rabbit hole), so I just built it from scratch using Active Server Pages (ASP).

I built the website. I built the CMS the website was built on. I built the
lead-capture system and the lead-distribution system. I even built the bill of
materials, manufacturing and shipping system. I built the whole thing. Keep in
mind, I was partially compensated with a percentage of company ***gross*** (not
net) revenue. I had dollar-signs in my eyes and documented sabotage to contend
with. The hardware was being attacked. Add that to my developing attitude
towards hardware because the Amiga computer was going away, and again hopefully
you see, really heady times.

Once I had all the underpinnings of the catapult built, I cut the ropes. Leads
as I said were not these trust-me affiliate referrals buried in logfiles and
click trackers. No, it was a whole bona fide message board system that kept
ownership and control of the leads with us, Scala, the software manufacturer. 
This was before such things as Salesforce were common or NetSuite even existed.
The term "CRM" meant mutli-million dollar implementations from Siebel, BAAN,
Oracle, Peoplesoft, SAP and the like. Or your Anderson Consulting or Deloittes.

For little ol' me to be doing this was so beyond belief that crushing the
reality of it all came down on my head like a ton of bricks, over and over and
over. Yet the leads kept getting generated and kept getting disseminated to
people all over the world, some of which I still count as friends today.

And you know what? Sales started going up. Vibrant discussions with prospective
customers started happening in this message board system. Did I mention how it
worked? Well, a sales-lead couldn't not be looked-at and either taken as an
internal lead or assigned to a dealer. If they batched up, it would turn that
person's name responsible for the pre-sales qualification process red. I took
the average lifetime revenue of a typical customer and calculated the potential
amount of revenue not responding was costing us. I displayed that number
predominately at the top of a color-coded report. It was very dynamic with the
numbers going up every day and the amount of red getting bigger and bigger.

I facilitated this financially-oriented report with a precursor to what later
became HitTail, which was to expose the real-time flow of search hits coming
into the site, with the keywords specifically highlighted in the referrers that
scrolled in front of you in real-time, making what looked like a black river of
keywords through an ocean of blue. Blue oceans. Getting into the black. Things
becoming red. This was a very emotionally charged system.

The catapult ropes were cut. There was basically a purging of some particular
departments and an rebuilding of departments with new names and new
responsibilities. Lo and behold, the red started diminishing. The attacks on
the hardware stopped. The sales started going up. The company started growing
again. 

And I was a villain. I was a pariah. I had turned myself into the political
animal and person to be hated, no matter the truth, because you see even though
there was a purging, it wasn't of the people who made the situation what it
was. I was only the poor chaps who believed they were doing what they were
supposed to, for who could have seen the undercurrents of demands for this new
emerging field of digital signage that nobody really knew what to call, but for
the person calling it everything, floating the content out there to see how it
did, and was rapidly iterating on it in a righteous feedback loop?

People... people... there I go generalizing again. And probably projecting too,
because you know all this motivation of mine always comes from the fear of
being an imposter. I'm not a get-rich-quick, luck-made-me sort of person. I'm
of what I would call average intelligence. I know I may look like I'm smart,
but honestly I'd have been a physicist or neuroscientist by now if I were
really smart. I observe. I question my senses. I perform tests.

It takes a damn long time for the route of ensuring you're not an imposter to
pay off for you. In fact, the mistakes you make along the way can be so costly
that you never end up saving or having those "material assets" that those who
don't take such routes as me covet so dearly. Because they have limited ways of
materializing, actualizing things into existence. When you're not an imposter,
you can materialize and actualize things into existence. Being totally wiped
out materially is just not such a setback to you.

So can I make that magic happen again today? Can I make affect the sort of
whole company profitability and culture turn-around I used to be able to? No,
not without making myself a pariah and a villain again, and that's not
something I'm willing to do without it being my own thing. So what are the
catapult ropes I'm getting ready to cut this time going to accomplish?

Helping my kid primarily with their path through life, not making the same
mistakes I did getting wrapped up in the addictive feelings of anger, but
rather learning how to funnel it into visualized purposes that benefit everyone
around you who you have chosen to align yourself with. To side-step those who
hate you for it, and to eat well, sleep well, consume information well, produce
produce well, and perchance make things a little better for me, those around me
and the world at large.

Of course, I could just be hoisting myself by my own petard.













<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/matter-doesn-t-matter-except-the-matter-you-take-into-your-body/">Matter Doesn't Matter, Except The Matter You Take Into Your Body</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/a-few-little-kitties-i-know-and-the-lessons-they-taught-me/">A Few Little Kitties I Know, And The Lessons They Taught Me</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/audience/'>Audience</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/marketing/'>Marketing</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/youtube/'>YouTube</a></h4></li></ul>