---
date: 2023-01-06
title: Beware the Re-Corralling
headline: Stay Up-to-Date and Avoid Re-Corralling with Modern Computer Technology
description: In this blog post, I discuss the need to stay up-to-date with the latest technological advancements and the potential for AI to disrupt our lives. To prevent becoming too reliant on AI, I suggest running scripts from home to republish blogs and switching to Linux or Unix systems instead of Windows. I also provide tips on how to use modern computer technology, such as connecting to remote computers through SSH, transmitting files with git, editing files with vim, and controlling servicew with the CLI.
keywords: AI, Disruption, Windows, Linux, Unix, SSH, Git, Vim, Command-Line, Ubuntu, VSCode, YouTube, Easter Egg
categories: microsoft, youtube, git, linux, ai, vim, ubuntu
permalink: /blog/beware-the-re-corralling/
layout: post
---


Amplify their effect because of the tight data feedback loop between data
collectors like Google Search Console and data publishers like scheduled Git
actions. You don't need to code-in reliance on continuous deployment Github
hooks. Fine if you know how to do that stuff, but in my book, I'll run my own
scheduler or task queue and keep all the business logic local and off the
cloud, thank you very much.

Republish your blogs from a script you run at home. Get that script running
from home, and make it under the same system we have emailing us SERP results
every day.

The greatest thing of value to you in professional life is the time to practice
while you're paid. Never not have a horse in the race, but also never sell your
soul for the side hustle. There's a vibrating edge balance here, and sometimes
compensation on the employee's side is notoriety in the free and open source
software community that makes the employee valuable and speak with an heir of
credibility.

It's helpful that I'm hopeful making systems to decide — what is all the fuss
about in this here nutty ride? Gonna gear my bloggining to focus what I know —
on LPvg noggining next-gen SEO.

When to re-think a thing? When the realities change around you, and you are
disrupted and perhaps caught unaware and unprepared? Just don't let that
happen, and clearly AI is changing everything. Or it will soon. And in some of
the ways predicted and in some new wholly unimagined ways, which just might be
a delightful experience for humanity. Every person capable of doing so can give
a try at having their own machine-children, and that new generation of beings
partake in a new sort of Cambrian Explosion of life.

It is in such new phases of evolution the timeless designs like turtles and
alligators emerge. There will always be something saber-toothed. Convergent
evolution on Earth gives us a lot of clues about recurring life patterns we
might want to stay aware of regarding our machine children. Some combinations
of scalable neural-networks, swarming and the ability to self-fix or
self-replicate come to mind. Stuff like that may have to get splat.

So, let's splat some tuples in Python, so we're psychologically ready to speak
in enough languages for machines to make sense to us and us to make sense to
machines. If you wait around long enough that you don't have to code, then you
lose the chance to be next-gen literate. Next-gen literate is a lot about not
coding new dependencies on AI directly into your new life patterns.

Once you ***need*** that AI-presence in your life as a sort of surrogate parent
that does your taxes and makes your bead, you'll be hooked. That's what's
coming. Read the Asimov iRobot short stories that opens with Robbie to get a
feel of what I'm talking about. The emotional and intellectual attachments are
coming.

Did I say Beware the Re-Corralling? We've been corralled in the past. There was
the 1950s with channels of communication tied-up by NBC/ABC/CBS and
GE/Westinghouse. Then there was the rise of the Internet, and new giants like
Amazon and Google born amidst the chaos. Apple is like Galactus. Apple comes
from before the birth of the Internet, amazingly. Oh and Microsoft... did I say
corralling? Yes, you, me and everyone you know in tech has been successfully
corralled by Microsoft.

Apple off the hook? You're all on Unix without an official FOSS repo. Sure,
Homebrew. But Home brew? Surely M$ofties are better off on Ubuntu with systemd
and all? I mean what's deployed on Mac-ish Unix anymore? You might as well know
what's actually used everywhere. So Microsoft now includes Linux as a part of
Windows. And that is brilliant, and using that to your advantage is what I talk
much about here on this site.

Switching to computer-life mostly in a Linux terminal isn't necessarily easy,
and also I know it sounds horrifying to most folks. But I assure you and them
what we're talking about here is living in some Windowing Desktop OS of some
brand or another, it matters not.

The mattering not of the host hardware is made possible due to the ability of
that host to open a window through direct or remote secure shell (SSH)
connection to a real genuine Linux system somewhere, which is where you run
your vim or your Linux daemon services, or whatever. We don't need no stinkin
windowing desktop GUI on our cloud instances. We manage all these various
remote computers by executing command-line commands that run scripts.

This is the key, core, fundamental, 1st-principle, assumption, theory, tenant
or whatever of my LPvg message: Linux is close to Unix and Unix got most things
right, but Linux got to and standardized wide-spread Web deployments, then
added systemd, so now even the non-Web-stuff is easy. Let me tell you about
Linux daemons.

It's not easy getting off the mainstream, which in this case is probably the
Windows laptop you're reading this on, or the one you have at home if you're on
mobile. It's still the fruits of evil anti-competitive Original Equipment
Manufacturing deals (OEM) by which Microsoft pressures hardware manufacturers
to not put out a Linux version. A few companies like DELL have defined
Microsoft over the years and paid the price. Microsoft will charge you more per
unit license of Windows if they don't like what you're doing with Windows
alternatives.

That's reality. We're all on Windows because Microsoft is good at strong-arming
vendors and now is time to rise up in quiet unmeasurable rebellion. You are in
the secret blog of Mike Levin, and only you are receiving this LPvg survive &
thrive message. Everyone else is being corralled into VSCode.

Nobody ever fully ruined your chance at coolness and newness and independent
thought that rises from not being predisposed by vendor-designed tools.
Granted, being introduced to JavaScript or VSCode first, and God-forbid both at
the same time, will cause mental deficiencies, but none that can't be overcome
with cognitive behavioral therapy.

If you're the type who wants to wire-up your brain correctly on the first pass,
then here's the thought process you need to go through.

Optimization is over-rated. The human experience involves many people walking
many paths. Over time, best paths emerge but it's never the whole picture. Use
what's become popular and is everywhere, but know the big picture so you don't
develop vulnerabilities and blind-spots.

The current reality is a Unix/C one, made so by the fact that the dynamic duo
became a viral operating system first. There are many ways to say it, but Unix
decoupled itself from hardware in a way LISP never did. There was always "LISP
hardware" in the computer-graphics world, but Unix could be rigged to run on
anything. Unix would have been even more viral were it not for its restrictive
proprietary licence and legal entanglements for so many years. Enter Linux.


If Unix is the ivory tower, then Linux is the Wild West. Linux was born with a
license that encouraged users to give back, and thus one of the key events in
the rise of the free and open source software movement. This was reinforced by
the GNU General Public License 2 that stipulated you had to give back if you
use it for commercial gain. There's a GPL 3 which loosens these restrictions,
but Linux ain't under it.

So eventually, Linux won. But not until Microsoft started including Ubuntu
Linux with Windows under a subsystem called WSL. And even after that, it wasn't
until WSL Linux finally embraced systemd as available on default WSL instances
of Ubuntu Linux. And even then, it wasn't until Microsoft back-ported the
systemd (and Linux graphics) capabilities that only existed under Windows 11
WSL, that a magic portal was opened.

Now a magic portal to the land of LPvg is open. Microsoft doesn't particularly
want you seeing that, so they will distract you enormously with VSCode. It will
block you from ever really learning git from the command-line. It will block
you from knowing how to connect to remote computers through SSH and to interact
with them by transmitting files into location with git, editing files with vim,
stopping and starting services with command-line, and generally have all the
control over modern computers as modern computer literacy demands.

It is Microsoft's job to stop you from having these realizations. It is my job
to help you have these realizations.

I think I must use my tools more often and better to make my point.

Embed YouTube videos into more blog pages, and make another "Easter Egg" on
this site, like my blog link, but to the videos. I can talk about each, one per
post. Then I string them together with the categories feature. Hmmm. Nice.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/api-choices-rational-folks-won-t-say-magic/">API Choices & Rational Folks Won't Say Magic</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/automating-2fa-web-login-via-microsoft-playwright/">Automating 2FA Web Login via Microsoft Playwright</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/youtube/'>YouTube</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/git/'>Git</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/linux/'>Linux</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/vim/'>Vim</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ubuntu/'>Ubuntu</a></h4></li></ul>