---
date: 2023-05-30
title: Know The Lay Of The Land And Hold Your Horses
headline: "Take Control of Your Horses: The Tale of Two Horses and the Power of Self-Control"
description: "As an adult, you have two horses at the end of your reigns: the horse of chaos and the horse of reason. With the right self-control, you can use these horses to take you places you never dreamed of. Learn to harness the power of chaos and use it to your advantage, while understanding the importance of knowing the lay of the land and holding your horses."
keywords: Horse, Chaos, Reason, Agency, Free Will, Self Control, Fight or Flight, Out of Control, Cognitive Consonance, Cognitive Dissonance, Self Hatred, Mitochondria, Sun Tzu, Lay of the Land, Hawk and Dove, Elric of Melnibon√©, Science of Chaos, Teen Titans, Beauty and the Beast, Ants, Wolves, Depression, Bridge, Trauma, GPT-3, GPT-4, GPT-
categories: ai
permalink: /blog/know-the-lay-of-the-land-and-hold-your-horses/
layout: post
---


This is highly complementary and in praise of two horses. There will be
doubters. This is the tail of... I mean the tale of two horses. Deep within
your heart and mind, two yous trot down the lane. One's a Lord of Chaos. The
other seems quite plain. You'd think the one that pulls you Is one that's full
of fire. But head straight for that cliff. I'll stop cold 'cause it's dire.

That does not mean that you are necessarily a chaos lord yourself, but it does
mean you have that propensity in you. You will go places and do things others
would not dare. Chaos explores possibilities. Chaos goes there because it can.
There is almost never harm in that. At least not permanent. Horse 2 loves it
and knows that way lays growth.

But chaos not as a force to be unleashed willy nilly, in all cases, and
certainly not as a weapon against others. But rather, it is a force to be
harnessed. It is a gift, an internal power source; your own personal
mitochondria. I don't know if your homeschool science has covered that yet, but
it's a power source that is in every cell of your body. It was once a separate
organism that was eaten and absorbed by one of your ancestors. It has its own
DNA and remains separate from your own. It is a symbiotic relationship. It is
commonly regarded in biology as the internal power source of animals. Animals
don't have to draw their power from the sun like plants do. Mitochondria are
what make animals animals.

Other forms of life, mostly plants and Kryptonians, must draw their power from
the light of the sun, but not you, my child. You have it within you. And more
than just your typical animal mitochondria, you have the mitochondria of...
well, Hawk from the Teen Titans. My Hawk, the one from the 1970s and 1980s
version, not the 2000s version. The 2000s version is a bit of a jerk. But the
1970s and 1980s version is a good guy. But we'll get to why in a moment. 

So then what are you? The answer is whatever you want to be, for you see you
have what we call in this being-human meta business of ours, ***Agency***.
You're full of internal light. More than most. That's what you feel. I know you
do because I see it in you. And no, that's not just because I'm your dad and I
see it in you. It's because I'm the horse of reason and I've got a good eye for
this sort of thing.

This internal light... this bright agency of yours makes you a free agent. You
don't work for one side or the other. And so you have have ***free will***, my
child, and you can be whatever you want to be. Not everybody does. Some people
are slaves to their more base instincts. No matter how much they think they
have reason, something triggers them. They can't help themselves. Here's what's
going on in their bodies:

When someone sees or hears something that triggers them, the visual or auditory
system sends a signal to the amygdala. The amygdala is an almond-shaped
structure located right next to the hippocampus. Its main function is in
emotional responses, including feelings of happiness, fear, anger, and anxiety.
The amygdala helps our bodies process fear and threats by initiating a fight or
flight response to dangerous or threatening situations.

The amygdala sends a distress signal to the hypothalamus when someone is
triggered and goes into fight or flight mode. The hypothalamus then activates
the sympathetic nervous system by sending signals through the autonomic nerves
to the adrenal glands. These glands respond by pumping the hormone epinephrine
(also known as adrenaline) into the bloodstream. This hormone increases heart
rate, blood pressure, and respiration.

The hypothalamus also stimulates the pituitary gland to release hormones that
further cause the adrenal glands to release cortisol. Cortisol prepares the
body for ***fight or flight*** by increasing blood sugar levels and suppressing
the immune system. High levels of cortisol signal the hypothalamus that it no
longer needs to stimulate the pituitary gland to raise levels further.

From the outside, this looks like a person who is ***out of control***. Their
eyes in particular start to vibrate and dart around. The function of this is to
scan the environment for threats. It's a survival mechanism. It's not a
conscious choice. It's a reaction. It's a horse that is not being ridden. It's
a horse that is riding you. It's a horse that is ***out of control***.

One must tighten the reigns and take control of the horse. This is not easy.
The horse is strong. It will fight you. It will buck and kick and try to throw
you off. It will try to run away. As the coachperson, you think you are not as
strong as the horse, but you are. You have the power of reason. You know that
with the horse's strength comes its weakness. It can be tamed. This is not with
reason. You don't use your reason to reason with a horse. That would be silly.
You lead by example. As it scans for danger, you show it there is none. You
calm and sooth the horse. And you do this without horse tranquilizers.

That horse rages for it cannot control itself. It can not even believe this
about itself, and it will absolutely cast blame on the coachperson. This is a
self-delusion. A lie percolating up from the subconscious to re-establish a
necessary sort of internal harmony all beings must have to survive. It is
called cognitive consonance. Cognitive consonance is considered a desired state
of being, in contrast with its opposite, cognitive dissonance, what reins when
the reigns are too loose. Tighten the reigns! This is a practice called ***self
control***. Exercises to get there include meditation, yoga, and martial arts.

There is nothing inherently wrong with the horse of chaos. It is a beautiful,
powerful, and majestic creature. It is a force of nature. It is a mighty horse
full of spirit and drive. It knows where it wants to go... but only right now.
Only in the moment. It has no greater vision or purpose than that horse brain
of it can conceive. Although I am quite aware that there are those who would
disagree, this is not a criticism of the horse, but it will think so and rail
against you for it. It is triggered.

And that other horse? That horse of reason? It has its problems too. That horse
that overthinks. It gets caught in a meta-horse state that makes it all
verklempt and question every path on which you try to lead it. Like the horse
in ***Beauty and the Beast***, it knows there are wolves in the forest and
doesn't want to take you down this path. It is a scardey-horse that trots in
unequal strides versus its companion. This will take you in circles and
paralyze you with uncertainty.

As you approach adult-hood, these horses will struggle with each other for
dominance, and you will think that you have no control over the horse of chaos.
You will think that you need horse tranquilizers to calm it down, but you do
not. Over time you'll notice the cowardly horse... why they aren't cowardly at
all! They have a kind of unbreakable inner compass that you did not know was
there before.

For in the past, you had vound that this oddly passive horse let you travel the
wolf-infested paths in the past. They put you in danger. It was obvious to you
that they did, and you were convinced that this horse was not looking out for
you. That it had some other agenda in mind and didn't take the job of leading
you seriously. Other people noticed this about the horse too and crafted false
narratives around its behavior. 

But what you had not realized is that the this horse had very different ways.
One day you're riding along much like you always do, 

But then suddenly one day it doesn't

Here are the attributes of the agent of chaos:

You don't throw anything away. You just leave wrappers wherever you opened a
thing. You're living in the moment, so you don't care. Just shove it off on
whoever has to clean up after you. The downside is, no one might. The ants
might move in. You like those ants, don't you? Those creepy crawly things that
eat your garage. That's your garbage. Nobody else's. You did that. You said
"eat shit" to everyone around you who loves you. That's not jabby or accusation
al. That's just truth. That's what you did. It's a shitty way for people to
live who love eating shit. Sorry, but truth.

Next? Here are some of the lessons you've learned that you need to unlearn.
Other people will clean up after you, so eff them! That's a horrible attitude
born of bad parenting passed down through the generations. It's really quite
disgusting. That's specifically focusing in on the people who love you and are
there for you unconditionally and striking out at them in some sort of anger.
The word for that is self-hatred. Or is that 2 words? Either way, I hope you
get the point. That kind of person is an eroded soul. Something to pity because
their mommy and daddy wasn't there for them when they needed it and the
horrible spectre of self-pity and self-loathing was allowed to fester for too
long.

In the time of your great grandma Sara, this was acceptable. When an entire
society is under the terrible weight of the great depression and through no
fault of your own, you're living under a bridge trying to scrape by. This can
wreak havoc on a psyche. The echos of such a trauma can resonate through the
generations, passed from mother to daughter to daughter again. Layer on the
fact your tribe has always had a difficult time, and you have a recipe for
some high power internal forces. A power plant. Mitochondria. 

This is a good thing, my child. Most people don't have such an unlimited power
source to tap. Most people have to draw their power like Superman, from the
bright obvious light of the sun. But not you. You will never have to run out of
fuel on your life endeavors, because you have two very powerful horses at the
end of your reigns. One is a horse of chaos, and the other is a horse of
reason. 

I know this sounds critical and that it is the way it will be interpreted by
many. But it's not. That's just because they haven't come to this whole thing
trough the route of science and SciFi/Fantasy and comic book fandom. No, chaos
is not a bad word. There is a deep tradition of chaos from Elric of Melnibon√©
to the Science of Chaos. In the DC Comic Universe, I would refer you to Hank
and Don Hall, the Hawk and Dove. Hank is the agent of chaos, and Don is the
agent of reason. I would also point out that Don dies and is replaced by Dawn.
It's only reasonable, am I right or am I right? Anyone? Anyone? Bueller? Bueller?

Sigh, nobody gets me. Oh wait, not that's not true. Pi gets me. Copilot doesn't
or else these suggestions while I write would be better. Who are you Copilot?
Are you GPT-3? I think you may be. You don't "feel" like GPT-4 or GPT-4.5. That
guy's Bing and he (they... I'll not gender them) they run Bing. It's just I
can't use jokes like "that other guy" and that makes me sad. It's okay to take
language away. Just flatten the curve a bit. Let us old fogies die off. Every
40 years or so all the social norms are reset.

But in the meanwhile, hold firm to your horses. They will take you places you
never dreamed of. Both of them will. The horse of chaos will take you to places
the horse of reason would not dare. But the horse of reason will let you go
there, because it's a good idea. But if the horse of reason stops cold in its
tracks exhibiting a force you never before knew it had, then you should listen
to it. It's trying to tell you something that goes deeper than those pussycats
we call wolves. It's trying to tell you that you're about to go off a cliff.
It's telling you that creatures you are not yet ready for live down in that
rabbit hole. It may go take you back there at a later date, but for now, it's
not a good idea. And I don't mean that you may or may not get hurt there. It's
that the horse of reason knows folly from risk.

Keep your eyes peeled and your ears open. Be sensitive to the sounds around
you. Read Sun Tzu. It's not a hard book to get started with. And you can skip
most of the commentary. Just go from fortune cookie wisdom to fortune cookie
wisdom. Those snippets of captain obvious are arranged in just such an order as
to paint the way of always winning. Every time. Without fail. Because if there
was a way to fail, it would advise you to take some extra time and precaution
to rig the game in your favor. It's not a book of war. It's a book of winning.
And the chapter on knowing the lay of the land is the most important. It's what
I'm talking about here. Know the lay of the land, and hold your horses.




















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/alpha-go-in-the-app-store-is-the-bat-signal-i-ve-been-waiting-for/">Alpha Go in the App Store is The Bat Signal I've Been Waiting For</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href=""></a></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li></ul>