---
date: 2023-04-30
title: Re-Railing Yourself After Getting Derailed In Life
headline: My Journey from Derailed to Re-Railing Myself with Timeless Tools and AI Assistance
description: At 52 years old, I've figured out how to re-rail myself and avoid getting derailed in life. I've gone through 10 years or 10,000 hours of attaining spontaneous mastery and expertise, and I'm now using tools like Linux, Python, vim & git to create applications that have an eternal life. My system, YAMLchop, focuses on journaling into one single text file, using title tags to decide what gets published and using OpenAI to write headlines and metas.
keywords: Re-Railing, Derailed, Circumstances, 16, 18, 25, Career, Vice President, Public Relations, Amazon.com, Pisher, NYC, Rat Race, Eight Ball, Chasing Tail, Hamster Wheel, Operating Systems, Windows 10, Windows 11, Designed Obsolescence, Lightbulb, Laptop, Mobile Phone, Programming Languages, Platforms, Lock-In, Active Server Pages, Cold Fusion, Flash, Java, Ruby on Rails, Node
categories: node, new york city, microsoft, operating systems
permalink: /blog/re-railing-yourself-after-getting-derailed-in-life/
layout: post
---


I've been derailed, however it is of my own doing. We're born to the
circumstances of our lives, but by the time we're 16 or 18 or 25 or whatever
years old, we should be able to have taken the reins of our lives and guided
ourselves back on track, or onto a different path, or whatever.

So perhaps I'm a perpetual derailer, because now I'm 52 years old, and am about
at the same place career-wise as I was when I came to New York City to be the
vice president of the public relation firm that launched Amazon.com. For a 28
year old pisher from the suburbs of Philly, that was a pretty big deal.

Fast-forward 24 years and I'm still a pisher, but now I'm a 52 year old pisher
with the same tricks in my head that I had when I was 28. Those tricks are good
ones. Problem being on the first go-around, I was on a bad toolchain, and I'm
the type of person particularly disruptable by tools and rules changing on me.

I like the timeless. I like learn once and master forever. You'd think that's
antithetical to the tech world, but it's not. It's just that the tech world
is mostly about the quarterly revenues of big tech, and big tech needs you
suffering from designed obsolescence and:

- Stuck in the rat race
- Behind the eight ball
- Chasing your tail
- Running on the hamster wheel

Well, you get the idea. That makes them money. You doubt me? Well then why are
perfectly good operating systems like Windows 10 that Microsoft themselves
admittedly called the last operating system you'll ever need now reaching the
end of its life? Microsoft just announced no new features for Windows 10, and
while Windows 11 isn't bad, it's also completely unnecessary. Even provided
"free" as it is by Microsoft, it's a forced upgrade so that the tectonic plates
keep shifting, and you're kept off balance.

Examples are endless. Designed obsolescence isn't some myth or conspiracy
theory. It's one of those rare, documented and outed conspiracy facts. Doubt
me? Google up The Great Lightbulb Conspiracy. It's a thing, equipped with a
nefarious villain name, the Phoebus Cartel, and everything!

Yeah, well fast-forward 100 years (yep, the Phoebus Cartel was 1925), and the
new light bulb is the laptop and mobile phone. Now admittedly, there's some
righteous features hitting mobile phones, but do we really need them, and
couldn't the product upgrade cycle be every 5 years instead of every 1 year?

Programming languages and "platforms" are the worst, because they make you
dependent on those very platforms. They intertwine with your knowledge,
know-how, muscle memory and very ability to do your job. They're the ultimate
lock-in, and they're the ultimate designed obsolescence. And they're Active
Server Pages and Cold Fusion and Flash and Java and Ruby on Rails and Node.js
and React and Angular and Vue and on and on and on.

Well, most of them are JavaScript-related these days, anyway. It's all pitched
so wonderfully as the full-stack, but it's really just the full-stack of highly
perishable lock-in. What's worse is the file structures required are so
convoluted that you need powertools just to keep it all straight, so it's a
golden opportunity for Microsoft to walk in with VSCode and really seize your
muscle memory. 

Richard M. Stallman, the founder of the Free Software Foundation, called
iPhones beautiful prisons Well, iPhone hardly holds a candle to what Microsoft
is doing to developers with VSCode. It takes digital handcuffs to a whole other
level. It's free, right? Well, how long before you're using Azure? Oh, and you
are paying for a Github subscription, right? For a mere $7.5 billion dollars,
Microsoft bought Github, and killed the #1 free and open source competitor to
VSCode, Atom.

At 52 years old, not only have I figured most of it out, but now I also well
into my plan. You might even say I'm over 10+ years into it.

For you see, I moved to NYC when I was 28. I was married in my 30s and had my
kid when I was forty. From 30 to 40 was the main derailing, but with the kid
landing, I knew that my very earning capacity and ability to provide for my
family was on the line. I couldn't be the victim of designed obsolescence
anymore. It has a 3 to 5 year cycle if you're lucky, but if you're not it's
more like a 10 or 15-year cycle. Macromedia/Adobe Flash designers know what I'm
talking about.

So I gradually found my way to Linux, Python, vim & git. No one's going to
obsolete me ever again. The resiliency was tested as recently as the rise of
AI. While not supported on vim, it Github Copilot is supported on NeoVim, a
completely compatible fork of vim. I had no idea how close NeoVim was to vim.
But when the shit hit the fan and the world changed again, my decision to go
all-in on vim payed off in spaces.

I'm writing this very journal entry right now Copilot-assisted. I can turn it
on and off with Function-Dim and Function-Bright, and that makes me smile every
time. I've got a public journal (this) where it's almost always turned on by
default, and I've got a private journal where it's never turned on at all.

I've basically gone through the 10 years or 10,000 hours attaining spontaneous
mastery and expertise process popularized by Malcolm Gladwell. I'm pretty adept
at all Linux, Python, vim & git. But the 12 or 13 years I've been focusing
primarily on these tools has hardly even been enough to dig deep. Each one is a
rabbit hole warranting a lifetime of mastery.

And so the re-railing has begun. GPT blasting onto the scene has really been a
wakeup call, and if an acceleration effect is possible building upon such hard
won mastery of the tools by applying it to real application, then the time is
right. The time is ripe. The time is now.

Haha, there was a whole few paragraphs there where Copilot gave up even trying
to autosuggest. Does that mean I'm living in the noosphere or just typing too
fast?
                                           
Re-realing started with the shallow-mastery of the tools, and now it's time to
work on applications. There's tools and there's what you do with the tools. And
the basic "system" I'm working on is not really that different from the stuff I
brought with me to NYC from the burbs of Philly, which was all built on old
Microsoft Active Server Pages (.asp files). Difference being now that the
things I create my have a sort of eternal life to them.

How will they be different?

Well, let's start with the fact that I'm no longer concentrating on "CMS"
(content management systems) per see, being somewhat enlightened now about the
universality of plain old text files. But text files become too numerous and
cluttered, so I'm concentrating on all text in one file.

My original systems handled slice & dice too, but the idea that it sliced and
diced all different files to increase the "surface area" of a website, and thus
play into the power of the "long-tail", whereby you get more traffic merely by
virtue of publishing about more things with a greater granularity of pages that
it was broken up onto. Those days are over.

So why am I still slice & dicing? Well because I journal a lot. Forget blogging
for an audience. I just journal. I write a lot, thinking out loud. I write in
order to force myself to articulate my thoughts. I've done this more or less
since I was 18 years old, and put it in digital format maybe 10 years ago as I
was taking up vim as a way of forcing myself to practice.

Fast-forward 10 years, and I am overflowing with the type of ability to slice
and dice such journals into websites, and so I forked a version of my private
journal and called it my public work journal.

And this is that.

And now AI has landed too, so I have a lot of help shaping this slice & dice
system (now called YAMLchop) into that timeless, and perhaps even broadly
appealing thing. We'll see.

The basic premise is this:

Just blog. Just journal into one single text file. Keep putting new entries at
the top, pushing the rest of your older writing further down into the file, as
would be natural. Your oldest post is at the bottom of the file, along with a
few other things you might like to be able to get to fast, like a to-do list.
Your newest entry is at the top. That too you can get to fast, and you can put
fun things like ASCII art that will motivate you and get you in the right
mindset.

The very top and the very bottom of the journal file won't be published. You'll
know what will be published because it has a title tag. Keep title tags off
your posts, and they won't get published. Add a title tag, and OpenAI steps in
to write you a headline (alternative headline to your tile), a meta description
and your keywords. The keywords can be used for category grouping.

And that's about it. Keep it in a git repo. If you keep it on Github, you can
use its automatic Jekyll static site generator system once called github.io,
but more recently called Github Pages, in order to automatically publish your
journal-generated site at no more cost than the $100/year or whatever for your
basic Github developer account. You can even do it on the free Github version.


<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/write-python-function-for-blog-previous-next-arrows/">Write Python Function for Blog Previous Next Arrows</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/embrace-displace-embrace-a-new-place-wsl2-linux/">Embrace & Displace --> Embrace a New Place (WSL2 Linux)</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/node/'>Node</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/new-york-city/'>New York City</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/microsoft/'>Microsoft</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/operating-systems/'>Operating Systems</a></h4></li></ul>