---
date: 2023-05-16
title: "2 Legs Good, 4 Legs Baaad: Debunking Work/Life Balance and Other Myths"
headline: I'm Debunking Myths and Experiencing the Rewards of AI Along the Way.
description: Discover how to achieve a successful lack-of work/life balance, debunking the myths and understanding the power of persuasion. Learn how to use AI to your advantage while still exercising creativity and free will. Get tips on how to be a successful your prickly self and still build credibility with journal-style writing.
keywords: work/life balance, Robert Cialdini, Influence, Power of Persuasion, GitLab, AI, AI goldrush, Ironman, Iron Dome, MOZ, Microsoft Word, Excel, Panda, Python, Vlookup, ETLs, imposter syndrome, Computer Age, Information Age, Batman, Adam West, Caesar Romero, Burgess Meredith, Frank Gorshin, Julie Newmar, Eartha Kitt, Lee Meriwether, Yvonne Craig, Burt Ward
categories: panda, imposter syndrome, seo, ai, python
permalink: /blog/2-legs-good-4-legs-baaad-debunking-work-life-balance-and-other-myths/
layout: post
group: blog
---


First, a word of thanks to Cheryl Daniels who sent the notification to the MOZ
group of your talk today. I popped-in, saw it wasn't intended for me as the
target audience, but then I stayed anyway. You were my podcast in the
background today while I worked, and boy am I glad I did. You will recognize
your wisdom, and that of of Ashley, Jade and the others who spoke today. I hope
you don't mind me reiterating many of your thoughts, weaving them into my own
as I went. I don't highlight what came from the 3 of you, specifically (just
like Bard, haha!), but this is one of the many unexpected rewards of working
where I do and I felt compelled both to share and acknowledge. 

What a wonderful group of people and place I work. And that's not just sucking
up. I'm in my fifties and have worked a lot of places, and don't give out such
praise lightly. It's kinda more the opposite, so I am especially grateful to
have this in my life right now. You find strength from surprising places when
you need it.

Now back to my ol' self-deprecating self. I've got to watch that or someday my
readers will believe I'm as much of a jerk as I project. It's the old softie
protecting themselves emotionally with a prickly exterior trick. Trust me.

Okay, dumbass. Put the same passion and love and intensity of writing in for
your job as you do for your personal life. Part of the problem is that I just
***love*** writing, a and I love the public commitment trick trick so well
stated by Robert Cialdini in his seminal book ***Influence, The Power of
Persuasion***, and it has me thinking of this public blog a lot like signing a
petition you know your neighbors are going to see, and that lights the fire
under my ass to do it.

Well, you know what. I work for MOZ to get you using MOZ, and this is not
proprietary about future-looking products and stuff. That I most deliberately
keep in one of those other, aforementioned unpublished (and not even on Github)
journals. Sometimes the need for privacy will have you looking at other "home
cloud" alternatives to Github, like ***GitLab***, and I'll cover that in future
blog posts as well. That sort of thing is becoming easier every day and is
where the personally empowering rewards of AI are working its subtle magic.

Sometimes you just have to get things out of your system, draw lines in the
sand, and work in that vibrating edge... tipping points... just shy of the
thresholds of releasing all that potential energy into kinetic. You can feel
the tension in the machinery. You can feel the build, and like a mechanic or
engineer stress-testing a piece of equipment that must be called into duty at a
moments notice, you are at one with the hardware. 

I speak of cutting catapult ropes often, but perhaps you should Google Iron
Dome. It's a fascinating modern example, tapping lasers and all kinds of
forward-looking, game changing stuff before such application reaches anything
else in the world, and it's done because a similar survival-imperative and
centuries of the sort of literacy I spoke of in the last post drives it. I
don't know any Iron Dome secrets except for what you can't hide because when
it's used, it's used. But I do know B follows A.

So what's the MOZ work-writing? Well, for starters I'm planning my next
article. I've been slapped down a few times for whatever, probably being too
technical, but the power of my content is already having a sort of
self-regulating aspect to it. So, first of all LEAVE THIS PLACE and go do the
editing in the place you must be to do your editing... 

Okay, don't get too the busy-work that was thrown back at you on that front. I
know they're swamped, but a quick glance could have told me these new
requirements earlier It could be an all-morning time-sink. Spin your plates, my
friend, spin your plates... biggest bang for the buck with the lightest touch,
those plates get spun first... okay, plates spun, LOL! Oh are the plates spun.
I have to make my case strongly in proposing articles, preemptively dealing
with the arguments against them. Make the arguments against them look like the
pretty long reach that they are. Use the evidence of the world changing around
us that everyone feels and sees as my evidence, and reach them on an emotional
level. Don't worry about stepping on toes in this case because the person whose
toes it might hurt is moving onto bigger and better things. My job is to make
MOZ itself the bigger and better thing. It's okay to let people see that. Just
don't go all-Scala on their asses. You be you and do what you do. That's why
you're still around, and that's why the people who make such calls on these
matters continue to defend me. You know who you are, and I thank you!

Dense text is sometimes your friend. Okay, go add citation links and consistent
headlines to your article like a mad-man. Get rid of the tedium by tapping AI.
Use the Web UI's so you don't incur any OpenAI codex-usage cost...

What once wasn't possible now suddenly is... possible ***by you***... and not
merely by an AI. They don't have the initiative yet, people! If you have one
iota of initiative in you, well then you have a window of opportunity, folks.
That's what the ***AI goldrush*** is about. It's about why slapping an Ironman
supersuit on you is going to change the world. Some people just aren't cut out
to be the hero's, and they'll slowly marginalize away, while those who have
been undermined and foiled... be Holmes to their Sherlock, while secretly
really being Sherlock.

Ah yeah, I gotta say where a lot of this comes from. First, you get it from
Batman and all those friggn parents getting killed stories. Will you y'all
please stop retelling the Batman origin story already! We get it already! We
get it. He's scarred. You're teaching our kids the wrong lesson. Where's the
campy Batman of the 60s? Oh God, I miss you Adam West. And Caesar Romero, and
Burgess Meredith, and Frank Gorshin, and Julie Newmar, and Eartha Kitt, and
Lee Meriwether, and Yvonne Craig, and Burt Ward, and Alan Napier, and Neil
Hamilton, and Stafford Repp, and Madge Blake, and Milton Frome, and Reginald
Denny, and Van Williams, and Bruce Lee, and Vincent Price, and Victor Buono.

You know who I maybe love above all others? Count Dooku himself, the great
Christopher Lee. Will we ever have another great actor who can look a director
in the eyes and say "No, this is how you kill a man"... and have the
credibility to back it up? Oh, maybe Alec Baldwin. I guess maybe Robert Wagner
and Christopher Walken, but the later folks for entirely worse reasons than
master old-time classic Dracula horror movie actor, and bona fide real life
James Bond, Christopher Lee who made it to Star Wars! You want someone who had
plenty of reason to be Bruce Wayne-caliber batty but was instead a real-life
hero? Look no further than Christopher Lee. If you think your scars define you,
think again.

People are going to tell their own story about you. You have to get out there
and show the world who you are. Be the extraordinary person some expect you are
and some fear you are. But actually diffuse the fear of a threatening ubertech
Linux nerd who can't/won't speak their or redefines the game as unfairly
technical that skews the advantage towards you. Teach them your tricks.

Why do I need a brand if I don't want to be a leader? What is said about me
when I'm not in the room? "Yeah, he's smart... or he thinks he's smart, but if
were really that smart, then, dot, dot, dot..." Or worse-still, I'm a prickly
mofo who says it like it is and can do more damage than good in a broken and
fragile situation, because he lays out the fix no matter who it's going to
throw under the bus. And also I come off as arrogant and showey. Cocky and
arrogant, and self-aggrandizing and boosting myself. And it probably gets worse
from there. Scala. Connors Communications. 360i. But not my current place. At
my current place I may have come off like that a bit, but my profoundly cool
boss, Bert, protected me. And when the shit hit the fan with the whole
department, others stepped up for me, so I must not be the total tool I think I
am.

What I offer is nothing less than a guaranteed solution to imposter syndrome.
It is not an over-used term. It can be used a lot more. You are probably using
the exact same tools as everyone else, and so the same tool-biases and inherent
tool limitations are effecting you as everyone else you're competing with.
That's what makes imposter syndrome this big umbrella thing. Everyone's in the
same imposter syndrome boat because they're the same Microsoft Word/Excel user
as everyone else and can not possibly be performing at your highest level. If
you were performing at your highest level, you'd be using Panda in Python
instead of a vlookup in Excel.

You're pushing data around, people. That may be an over-simplification, but you
are in the Computer Age. You are in the Information Age. Matter matter less.
Information matters more. And in the digital world, information is information,
and you are just pushing it around, reformatting it, doing "extraction,
transforms and lists" (ETLs) like everyone else. Subtlety and details are
important, and if you want the subtleties and details that surround you, that
color you, that makes your reputation. 

The work is always the same and the demand is only ever going up. But those who
can accomplish the work are going down. Cheaters think better AI-prompting is
the new magic weapon, but that's one of the many myths I'll be shredding to
pieces here. Nope, nope, nope.

Hmmm. Reputation. Experience. All the genuine competence fewer and fewer really
want to spend the time acquiring because of the gut feeling it's all going to
be obsolete in a few years anyway. Why invest in yourself or anything with the
world changing so fast? Why not just be a consumer and let the world change
around you and die as a well-fleeced sheeple? Four legs good, two legs baaad,
as they say, right? Or maybe go commit some crimes and get thrown in jail and
have them just feed you every day, because when you list the pros and cons,
both these choices are about the same.

Be comfortable with being uncomfortable. If your reality is the same as
everyone else's because you were group-thought into submission, or chose the
cheaters route too frequently, then you're out of sync with your true inner
self. You're not being true to yourself. There's value in allowing yourself to
be awkward in a room of sheeple. Two legs good, four legs baaaaad. You should
bleat that in a room of group-thinkers sometime. See if a single one of them
actually ever read Animal Farm. If they ever read it in their life, they will
likely never forget the reference. You may have some secret friends in the
room. But then again, you might earn yourself some enemies for life.

I don't want to be management or having anyone working for me. I want to be a
worker bee. But I want to be such a hyper-effective worker bee that I can get
away with all that shit. I'd love to be the example of the badboy who actually
loves you and is looking after your good, perchance worth patterning your
behavior after Linux, Python, vim and git more valuable and accessible than you
think timeless tools road less traveled all the difference yadda yadda yadda. 

For example, I should really show journal-style writing with Copilot, and how
to use it to ***not*** write like an AI. The more Copilot and things like it
can predict you, the more mathematically calculable you are and the less you
are exercising creativity and human free will. Am I really the only one talking
about this stuff online, or do all the algorithms just not reward genuine
newness and creativity.

One of the great achievements or capabilities that should be nurtured in AIs
should be to identify the new. There's nothing new under the sun, except for a
thousand points of light that are. Be one of those points of light, and start
raising the intensity and brightness of your bulb until you make it impossible
for the algorithms and the AIs that are taking over for them to ignore you.

And back to my actual work for the day. Shit, I hate when these
gotta-get-it-out moments hit me. But I don't. I love it. It's my passion.
Journal-style writing that dredges up your subconscious using tools that can't
be taken away from you is a worthy thing to build your credibility upon. 

I have to get over that old fashioned kind of guilt, because I'm an "SME" for
"subject matter expert", damn it. And it's ***without*** this kind of
thought-work and literally experiments that its connected to (this blog) that
gives me the first-hand experience I need. Just balance it with the work that's
actually expected from you more. I often give myself very good advice but I
very seldom take it.

















<div class="arrow-links"><div class="post-nav-prev"><span class="arrow">&larr;&nbsp;</span><a href="/blog/perhaps-i-made-the-wrong-turn-at-albuquerque/">Perhaps I Made The Wrong Turn at Albuquerque</a></div> &nbsp; <div class="post-nav-next"><a href="/blog/you-don-t-know-oz-the-way-i-know-oz/">You Don't Know OZ The Way I Know OZ</a><span class="arrow">&nbsp;&rarr;</span></div></div>
## Categories

<ul>
<li><h4><a href='/panda/'>Pandas</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/imposter-syndrome/'>Imposter Syndrome</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/seo/'>SEO</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/ai/'>AI</a></h4></li>
<li><h4><a href='/python/'>Python</a></h4></li></ul>