---
title: On Flow State Alternation - The Key to Success
permalink: /2024-11-20-flow-state-alternation/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

We're all different. Some people thrive on being in the moment and responding to
interruptions and multitasking. That's not me, no siree. I love accomplishing
more than it seems like I should be able to, and I find that doing so requires
an almost altered state that I can only equate to a musician getting lost in
their music or... uhh... yeah, no other metaphor really needed. Didn't the movie
Soul cover this pretty well? Yeah, I believe it did.

I need me my focus, and I'm one of those out-of-balance types bearing down on my
artform and craft until it yields fruit. Artists do that. It sometimes kills
them, and sometimes they're not even all that inspired as they do so, so it's a
real lose lose situation, haha! Me no want Dunning-Kruger effect, but me know in
some Bizarro world, maybe this one, that's exactly what's going on. My attempts
to hit above my weight league may be misguided, and I'm perhaps destined to
fail.

NOT! 

Wow, these AI coding assistants are great. I can turn the Dunning-Kruger effect
into actual ability. Imagine that! Just keep making genie wishes whenever you
come up to the limit of your abilities. I tried doing that from the moment it
was made available to the general public. For example, I was on that Microsoft
Github Copilot bandwagon right out of the starting gate, and in NeoVim of all
places, because that's where I journal. That's what I'm doing right now.

But that didn't last long, no siree, I can tell you. It was like typing into
maple syrup, such is my typing into the longtail outlier fringe edges of that
normal distribution bell curve of... of... Perplexity? What are those words I'm
looking for?

**Perplexity**: You're describing the concept of "flow state" or being "in the zone," which was indeed a central theme in Pixar's movie "Soul"[1][3]. This psychological state is characterized by complete absorption in a task, where time seems to slow down and self-consciousness fades away.

## Flow State and Creativity

The movie "Soul" portrays this state visually, showing Joe Gardner, the main character, entering a trance-like state while playing jazz piano[1]. During these moments, the physical world around him dissolves into abstract shapes and colors, representing his complete immersion in the music[5].

## The Balance Between Flow and Obsession

However, "Soul" also explores the potential dangers of becoming too obsessed with one's passion[1]. The character Moonwind warns that while the zone is enjoyable, it can lead to disconnection from life if it becomes an obsession[1]. This reflects your own awareness of the potential pitfalls of being an "out-of-balance" type focused intensely on your craft.

## Productivity and Focus

Your preference for deep focus and accomplishing more than expected aligns with the concept of flow. This state often leads to high productivity and creativity, which explains why you find it so valuable for your work[2].

## AI Coding Assistants

Your mention of GitHub Copilot reflects the growing trend of AI-assisted coding. These tools can indeed enhance productivity, but as you've experienced, they may not always seamlessly integrate into every workflow or environment.

## Statistical Distribution of Skills

The "normal distribution bell curve" you're referring to likely relates to the distribution of skills or abilities in a population. The "longtail outlier fringe edges" would represent exceptional cases at either end of the spectrum, where rare talents or extreme deficiencies might be found.

Citations:

    [1] https://jacobrcampbell.com/blog/2020/12/pixars-soul-and-interesting-view-of-states-of-flow/
    [2] https://www.traitify.com/blog/the-psychology-of-pixars-soul
    [3] https://theburlingameb.org/3697/showcase/pixars-soul-highlights-the-importance-of-embracing-the-small-beauties-of-life-and-encourages-self-reflection/
    [4] https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/what-can-pixars-soul-teach-us-work-success-life-paul-millerd
    [5] https://greatergood.berkeley.edu/article/item/how_the_science_of_awe_shaped_pixars_soul
    [6] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HpJlVLhzFIU
    [7] https://www.reddit.com/r/TrueFilm/comments/klceag/pixars_soul_and_its_limits_on_imagination/
    [8] https://thecollision.org/the-worldview-of-soul/

Right, thanks Perplexity! Having normal distribution talent-wranglers in a
journal where you're brainstorming and working through ideas is a big no-no.
They don't know. They think they know, but they don't. The unintended
consequences of this, generally for most people as manifest in coding or
professional white collar work like Apple AI is intended for, is going to be
hilarious! A real shitshow spiral of herd mentality. Oh boy, if you think people
followed the herd before, just wait until the algorithm is giving them "best
practice" advice in every step of life, in every thing they do.

You need shields up! You need a strategy. You need a whole set of new skills and
habits for getting the full benefit of the genie without constant genie wish
backfiring effect. It's real. Genies might be some computer program that's
ultimately deterministic and just statistics, who knows. I'm keeping my mind
open. But whatever the nature of this wonderful new tool is, it backfires. It
backfires a lot and in subtle ways you may never be aware of.

I just dealt with it on one of the most important hitting above my weight league
bits of thought-work I've ever done in my life. It worked out well. Soon, I
shall reap the rewards. Just one more weekend of ultra-super-duper focused
work... just one more...

But I can not afford that now. No matter my love for the work. No matter how
much I found my ikigai, I must switch modes. I must serve. When the client says
jump, I must say "how high"...

NOT

I must do the right things for the right reasons, and when I am in that
ultra-responsive mode, it's a process of building consensus and buy-in for the
workflow show... no. NO! That's for later.

Mode switched.

Oh today's work journal entry is going to be a dozy, but first I have to switch
states and focus on some client work. Sayonara for now!
