---
title: It's All About the Clients
permalink: /its-all-about-the-clients/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

Plan every day like an adventure. Lean into your Ikagi. Practice strengthening
against your weaknesses. Learn and use names. Make associations. Let your mind
go into the needs of the clients you're servicing. Empthize with them and
imagine what they would be lookng to you for. This is what will illuminate your
path today so you can get out of it what you need for ikagai alignment, and they
can get what they need in terms of Clients. Don't get lost in the weeds or fall
down the rabbit holes. Look at your calendar.

It's a busy day, but you've still got a couple of hours before the meetings
begin. Get your client-oriented thoughts together, and also get your big-picture
and daily workflow thoughts together. You are forming new daily habits. You are
developing new muscle memory. Let this screen and this writing guide you. Don't
shy away from using the second screen on the Mac when you're in the office.
They're so easy to plug into, and it's only at the expense of a little bit of
effing-with your muscle memory. Macs, ugh! It's just like having to deal with
their renaming and moving of the alt key to option. Ugh!

Anyway, when you're in the office, you're on Macs all day, and that's got to be
okay. It's got to be okay for a few reasons. You've really got to lean into its
strengths, but in such a way as it doesn't rewire you back to Mac. Bring as much
as you can about your NixOS environment here to the office. For example, I now
have a Nix Flake in the repo that is my daily blog and public website (this). I
therefore can carry around my whole own home vim environment here. I would just
need to also my nixos repo here and in the same relative location so that the
helper scripts will activate. That will be a big boon even here and now as my
new leader-key macro system will be back instead of the @buffer approach I used
to use&#151;because vim vs. nvim and being able to get AI help on `init.lua`. Oh
that's a story for another time.

Your muscle memory needs resiliency, but not that much. That's a good use of
some of your precious valuable time right now. Go!

Ugh! The trick to not "getting lost" is to have this very daily blog entry open
full-screen and on screen 1 of the ribbon of virtual destkops. Here on the Mac
that's a challenge because it keeps rearranging the virtual desktops. The Mac is
the most insulting thing ever to muscle memory, if you're trying to keep
yourself generic and flexible in the industry. I fight Mac every time I get on
one. It is like a battle for your habits. Okay, try that again. Get this to be
my NixOS vim and not the brew installed one...

Okay, the repo is `nixos-config` and not `nixos`. I guess that makes sense to
avoid confusion with the command name. A couple of rules to help myself out when
I'm on the Mac. This daily work journal full-screen on screen 1 is no
compromise/no-undermine. For example, don't open new Terminal tabs in such a way
that this journal can get lost. It's always full-screen. It's always the only
thing on that screen. And it's always what should be on screen 1 (reshuffle
often to reset that). In this way, you always have at least 1 fixed-location,
even on a Mac.

