---
title: It's About Delighting Customers
permalink: /its-about-delighting-clients/
description: My journey with AI and language models has taught me that technology is only valuable if it truly enhances the customer experience. Inspired by Drucker and Deming, I keep my focus on creating value from the customer's perspective, setting clear priorities, and avoiding unnecessary complexity. By aligning technical innovation with real client needs, I’m building a data-driven approach that helps clients stand out and captivate their audience's attention.
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

In my previous exploration of ambient intelligence and the integration of AI
into applications, I found myself immersed in the technical depths of embedding
language models and refining user interactions. The journey was both challenging
and exhilarating, but it led me to a pivotal realization: all the technological
sophistication in the world means little if it doesn't enhance the customer's
experience.

## AI Enhancements Must Prioritize Customer Delight

This brings me back to the timeless wisdom of Peter Drucker and W. Edwards
Deming. Drucker reminds us that the purpose of a business is to create and keep
a customer, emphasizing that value is defined from the customer's perspective.
Deming complements this with his philosophy of continuous improvement, urging us
to refine every process with the customer's satisfaction in mind.

## Escaping the Rabbit-Hole-of-Doom

To prevent myself from descending into what I like to call the
"rabbit-hole-of-doom"—where one gets lost in endless technical intricacies and
abstract theorizing—I've established safeguards to keep my focus anchored. These
include setting clear priorities aligned with customer needs, implementing time
constraints on exploratory projects, and regularly stepping back to assess the
practical value of what I'm working on. By having these checks in place, I can
enjoy the excitement of innovation without losing sight of the ultimate goal:
delivering tangible benefits that delight our customers.

## Using Rabbit-Hole Escape Safeguards

While it's easy to become engrossed in the captivating depths of technology—what
I sometimes refer to as the "rabbit-hole-of-doom"—I've learned the importance of
implementing safeguards to prevent getting lost there. This means setting
intentional checkpoints to step back and zoom out, ensuring that my passion for
the details doesn't inadvertently sabotage the customer relationship. By
balancing deep technical exploration with a high-level focus on customer needs,
I can maintain the clarity required to deliver solutions that truly resonate.
There will always be time to indulge in the complexities, but not at the expense
of the very people we're here to serve.

## Delight Customers First. Refine Tools Later.

In the age of AI, it's easy to get caught up in the allure of cutting-edge
architecture and complex algorithms. However, the true measure of success isn't
found in the sophistication of our systems but in the smiles of our customers
when we exceed their expectations. Today, I want to shift the focus from the
intricacies of technology to the heart of our mission: delighting customers. By
embedding AI seamlessly into our interactions and committing to ongoing
improvement, we can create experiences that not only meet but surpass what our
customers envision.

## Streamline Workflow: Jupyter Notebook Prototyping (vs. Excel/Sheets)

Okay, what this means is get your ass into both the Botify product and Jupyter
Notebooks more! It's still the best environment for rapid prototyping and a
better alternative to Excel and Google Sheets. You need to make your
Pipulate/Botifython/Botifymograph what you port into after a successful launch
of a concept in Notebooks, and get that Notebook-to-FastHTML flow a sweet reward
for having delighted a client with the Notebook version. And THAT'S what you're
doing today to make tomorrow a success with 2 different meetings I'm leading...
gulp! Think! 

## Parity Between nixOS and macOS Desktops

Your workflow is tweaked just a tiny bit on both your NixOS day-to-day machine
and your work Macbook. They get into parity. I'm giving up the natively
installable JupyterLab version in favor of one that comes up through the
browser, served from a Nix Flake. This still sounds like technical mumbo jumbo,
but it's the bridge to doing some stuff today that would normally be done in
Excel, but doing in a Notebook for a good show for the client (always fire-up a
pretty Notebook) and get some PageWorkers edits deployed. That's the priority
for the day.

## Planning a Delightful & Meaty Client Call

The trick now is to work fast. Plan the meeting like a show. But there's got to
be steak behind the sizzle. Walk them through how we do the deliverable. Show
them process and expose them to expert use of the Botify product. The best way
to learn is to teach, and if you're learning for a successful client experience
which includes teaching them to fish in the product, all the better! Okay,
THINK! Switch to private notes. Bop over to another journal to thing these steps
through out loud... No! No! On second thought...

## Use Cialdini's Commitment and Consistency Lifehack

Just leave the client names out here. Commitment and consistency! I dropped the
Drucker and Demming names for client-focus and continuous improvement. It's time
to drop Robert Cialdini's name for commitment and consistency. You're more
likely to follow through with what you say and the beliefs you state if you
state them in public and force yourself to be accountable to both yourself and
now your imaginary audience. He gives the example of signing a petition that you
know your neighbors are going to see your name on. Using this to modify your own
behavior is one of the great keeping yourself honest life-hacks. And so...

## What to Have at Your Fingertips?

ActionBoard | Client's Website | Agenda

Ooh I like that. The Unix "pipe" symbol (|) transforms into a nicely formatted
table in Jekyll static site generator (GitHub Pages). What that does is it makes
the 1st 3 bookmarks in my browser bookmark folders per client. A client folder
in my browser is important, because it's even connection to Slack, the important
places to look for each client because I'm Slack-challenged. It's not my type of
UI and it's plagued by all the too-many-places-to-look problem. The 3 and only 3
most-important places to look rule. 3 and only 3 most-important places to look
rules. 

Get from here to really awesome meeting ASAP! Recruit AI. Articulate the
challenge. Do it mostly manual. Prepare for automating it.

This is me preparing for AI. Clarify the thoughts for myself. That is the same
thing as training an AI to do it later. Grease the wheels.

Baring any other special deliverable for the call, structure the visuals and
texture of the thing around:

1. An Agenda that says what we're going to do
2. Looking at the Action board and "making choices"
3. Look at Client's site to validate choice
4. Create a PageWorkers edit together (AI-assisted or not)

## JavaScript for Client-Specific Meeting Actions

This will be the fall-back behavior for every meeting. There will be clients who
are not on PageWorkers, but that's fine. We just express what should be done to
the site anyway in JavaScript. It's a good ***todo-description*** syntax, even
if the changes are supposed to be made in a CMS template so the changes get into
the HTML source (always better). But nonetheless, ***what*** should be done on a
per-URL basis almost always can (and should) be expressed in JavaScript first.
It's far more clarity than a PowerPoint or Google Slide&#151;and the JS edit can
always be shown on a slide with some visuals added anyway.

## Find Technical Satisfaction in Client Work

YES! The trick is getting myself to fall in love with this part of the process
where I usually zone out. But don't. Internalize the client's issues and
problems and find that same technical craftsmanship satisfaction in that sort of
stuff by purging out the soft-skills bullshit that can plague these processes
with Botify-esque hard skills. Objectivity, baby!

## Website Crawling and a Core Set of Pages

Let's look at your site as HTML as a result of a Botify crawl, and a Google
crawl (and other crawlers where applicable). We can see what they think your
site looks like from a URL perspective. It starts out with a "your site is
X-pages large" perspective. It's rarely so straight forward, but for the sake fo
framing the discussion you have to at least start out that way. You can always
discuss why that's rarely 100% accurate, but why it is actually a reasonable
goal, especially having a special select sub-set of pages that are your core,
and are the minimum of which you would like all creepy crawly things visiting
your site to be aware of.

## Look First Through SiteCrawler For Number-of-Pages Overview

We see your site through Botify eyes. We have hundreds of reports pre-made in
Botify just waiting for you to go look at them. But they are all charts and
graphs and lists, and can without some guidance lead to paralysis through
analysis. That's why you use the Botify Advantage. However else the product
might be set up in term of digesting logfiles and Search Console, you will at
least have the crawl overview `https://app.botify.com/org/project/crawl/` and
that always serves as a good starting point in the "number of pages in your
site" discussion. 

## Immediate ActionBoard Drill-Down for Efficiency

On some sites, like the one I'm working on right now, you can just download the
whole list of URLs. Usually, you filter it somehow or other, especially with the
problem URLs that are brought to your attention by ActionBoard. Wait yes, why
filter later when you can filter now. Cut down clicks. Cut right to the chase.
So give them that full-site overview, and the Venn diagrams of the funnel if
they have enough data sources available. But then roll up your sleeves and
quickly start working, and that means an immediate ActionBoard drill-down.

## PageWorkers Optimization Deployed First

It's tempting to want to try to kill a lot of birds with one stone here (I know
we need better metaphors), but we are going to resist that temptation to grease
the wheels of PageWorkers optimizations. Let's get the first one deployed.

## Further PageWorkers Breakdown by Pagetype

And even within the first ActionBoard item, there's further sub-division of the
Deliverable by Pagetype. You can't use the same new pattern across different
pagetypes. So have the planned user experience. It's the muscle memory now
that's important. Familiar places to go in the Botify product. Familiar stories
to tell. Familiar processes to carry out with the downloads.

## ActionBoard Prioritization and Issue Allocation

So, we're just going to chip our way through the ActionBoard, top-down,
following its list of priorities unless there's some reason we encounter not to.
The issues we find we'll divvy out either to your tech team for the sprints, or
to ActionBoard. This is not yet a new-content play so new content production
isn't part of the ActionBoard part of the discussion. But that will be the
competitive gap analysis, which we'll discuss after this.

## Building Core SEO Meeting Process

Okay yes. This is sort of a mental exploration of the types of meetings I'd
like to be holding. In SEO, there's just a huge unending checklist of things to
do, and a formalized process around that will take shape over time. But for now,
it's all about 80/20-rule solutions, coming out of the gate strong with the
experience the client has with us, leaning into the strengths of our product,
and creating a core process we can expand from later.

# Meeting Flow

### Look at Goals

- Review top SERP benchmark keyword goals
- Review keyword-diversity (non-benchmark) SERP goals
- Review ChatBot prompt response (ChatPR?) goals

### Look at Site Holistically

- Visualize Client's Link-graph
- List out the Competitors
- Light crawl of all Competitors (click-depth of 2)
- Visualize link-graph of competitive set off top-keyword SERPs

### Look at ActionBoard

- Technical SEO changes on the site we **can** perform with PageWorkers.
- Technical SEO issues on the site we **can't** do ourselves and raise with your team.
- Technical SEO issues that we deem unimportant and **Hide** in our product.

### Look at Site Content

- Perform a content gap analysis
- Perform a link-landscape gap analysis

---

## Feedback Loops: Mastering the Cycle

Lather, rinse, repeat. There are righteous feedback loops here. We want to make
them clear, addictive with a dopamine rush, and high-integrity in this AI-driven
world we're in. Spammy SEO tactics will be outed, because you can't fake it for
long as these things get smarter.

## AI's Competing for Your Attention in the Attention Economy

Okay, this is good. I can fall in love with this. Do right by the clients. Make
the game we're playing super ultra clear. Human attention is the most finite
resource. There's only so many people *"searching"* or *"seeking"* or
*"consuming"* data, information or media whatever you want to call all these
things. No matter how things change, there's only x-amount of human attention
being divvied out over y-objects of attention, and our clients are trying to
step into their path and become the object of their attention. Yesterday, this
was radio, TV and newspapers. More recently it was web search and doom scrolling
social media. More often today, it's engaging an AI ChatBot. And of course there
are hybrids where you're engaging the AI but it doesn't feel like it, like
Search Results and The Feed. Still AI.

OMG, I can't believe I'm racing to this Friday deadline being done with my AI
Web Framework work with sample real-world minimum viable product with all this
client work in the middle. OMG, and more meetings are filling in even today.
Okay, work smarter. Just nail these things you need for your internal 4:00 PM in
the next half-hour. 1, 2, 3... 1? 3 separate exports from Botify via
ActionBoard. 

- Pagetype 1: Stores (export all for consistency)
- Pagetype 2: PDPs (only export title tag too short)
- Pagetype 3: PLPs (only export title tag too short)

Getting a out PageWorker optimizations across all these will be good for
tomorrow. But I need sample data. Okay, so export the PDPs and PLPs where the
title tags are ***not too short*** and use them as the sample data to try to
match. Okay, so the story goes like this:

We're working the ActionBoard from top-down. When we reviewed this last week, we
gave you a SmartContent demo, which is an awesome capability. But reviewing the
site priorities, it seems logical to start with something that has less of a
subjective quality assurance aspect to it, and instead work with some
predictable patterns to lengthen short title tags.

Just got off a call with a pretty brilliant coworker. I'm going to redo my
PageWorkers preparation work to include. Okay, gotta love this work. Gotta be as
insightful as my coworker. Gotta lean into the Botify strengths in new and
creative ways. We've already done this-or-that and we can use that data-point
for a more thorough and data-rich process.

Okay, and when I do this work I want to get pages like this nice and
summarize-able, probably with a little more case-specific data layered in for AI
to summarize into the synthetic training data for prompt-injection under my new
system. This is my path to having minimal viable product by Friday. THESE are
the PageWorker example edits I'm looking for.

YES! Play your cards right, and you can delight the clients USING your new
system and get the proper kind of momentum rolling here. Okay, deep breath... no
rabbit-holes... 

---

Ugh, I went down the dev rabbit hole. Re-focus! Use your window to nail this.
Make it a great experience. That's priority #1. It's all about PageWorkers! And
making the work love-worthy by recruiting into the job an AI to make it
interesting and stimulating. So, we go to my 1, 2, 3... step procedure. 1:
Re-download the source material from Botify. Hold your feet over the fire and
hold yourself accountable. Put on the show!

- Top-down from ActionBoard
- Title Tags too short

Download the CSV with fields added. Get creative about the fields you add.
Really look at the page. Figure out what elements have the data you need to make
the fields longer. Craft the prompt.

I am uploading a CSV of store locations for a client. It contains extracts from
their store location pages on their website. The title tags are too short, but I
have included a number of fields that will help us make them more descriptive
and useful to the user. For each row in the spreadsheet, please look at the
existing Title, Meta Description, Breadcrumb Tree, metadata-h1-contents, and
metadata-h2-contents. Create a New Title based on that which is within the
standard title length recommendations for SEO, which is follows the pattern and
preserves the spirit of the original title tag, but which also gets in more
information useful to the user in selecting the location and what can be found
there. Get in an important extra keyword missing from the existing title tag. Do
not be repetitive in just repeating the meta description data over and over in
New Title. Instead, focus on important unique information such as that found in
the Breadcrumb Tree. Create a new CSV which contains all the old fields and
data, but adds the New Title column next to the old Title column and prepare it
for download.

Here's a prompt revised to follow the 1-2-3 style for clarity and precision:

---

**Prompt for Revising Title Tags in Store Location CSV:**

1. **Goal**: I’m uploading a CSV file containing store location data for a client’s website. The goal is to improve the Title tags, making them more descriptive and valuable for SEO while preserving the spirit of the original titles.

2. **Process**:
    - For each row, review the columns: **Existing Title**, **Meta Description**, **Breadcrumb Tree**, **metadata-h1-contents**, and **metadata-h2-contents**.
    - Create a **New Title** following standard SEO title length recommendations that:
        - Adheres to the pattern and essence of the original title.
        - Includes one additional important keyword missing from the current title.
        - Avoids redundancy by not simply repeating meta description data; instead, focus on unique info like **Breadcrumb Tree** content to make it relevant and informative.
    
3. **Deliverable**: Produce a new CSV file containing all the original columns plus a **New Title** column positioned next to the **Existing Title**. Prepare it for download.

---

Let me know if you’d like to add or emphasize any details further!

---

Okay, ChatGPT gave me Python code for this, so I take that so I can do my own
fine-tuning. Time is running out! I want to have a single good PageWorkers edit
staged. So focus on a very small set of URLs with a big potential impact. As a
follow-up, you can do the PLPs and PDPs. But for now, focus on Store Locations.

Okay, I got that done. The PageWorkers optimization is staged and ready. Pshwew!
There are 2 other PageWorker optimizations I could work on for the meeting, but
I have slated as follow-up. I don't want to use the remaining time-window on a
crunch, but rather on polish. Plan the polish and pizzazz. Engaging them in the
issues of a 1st PageWorkers deploy is in itself big, no matter how few URLs may
be effected.

Okay, this is good. Now do a little round-robining tasks. Get your link-graph
tech going and slam one out for a different client, then shift back to Gap
Analysis for client #1. Go!

Okay, slammed out one of those ginormous link-graphs. My prototype system for
autogenerating them didn't do the meta-file of the layered-in extra metrics like
Pagetype and GSC-data so I had to hand-export that, and the site was very slow.
I'm wondering if it was a timeout. Anyway, that just goes further to light the
fire under me to port it into the new framework where I can give it full tender
love and care. TLC on the products so TLC for the clients!

Think through next steps. A lot of directions to go. Get the Gong recording
playing in the background so that I know the players and I know the issues. Get
to know the client stakeholder, their issues, their site, and expectation
setting. Absorb it in the background as you evaluate next steps. Narrowing
window. 

Okay, a content gap analysis! Figure out their competitors... Okay, done. I've
got a new technique for that now that I'm playing with Gemini Advanced. An AI
which actually **is from Google** and which has a huge context window can be
used for things that other AIs currently have difficulty with, suitable for
figuring out a client's competitors. So it went way more smoothly than I could
have hoped for. Do the data-pulls of the competitors and generate the Gap
Analysis. Okay, done. It's an Excel file due to the size and user experience
issues with a document like this. But I need to get and stay organized with
files and the company's Google Drive, so put it there where it should be. Also,
I'm trying to do everything on NixOS now, and not on Mac and certainly not in
Excel if I can help it. So that gets things set up actually to show it under
LibreOffice.

