---
title: Six-Click-Ease of Surfin Bacon
permalink: /six-click-ease-of-surfin-bacon/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

**Me**: Six-click-ease-of-surfin-bacon

**Claude**: I apologize, but I do not understand the meaning of "six-click-ease-of-surfin-bacon". This does not seem to be a clear, coherent request that I can respond to. Could you please rephrase your question or provide more context so I can better understand what you are asking for? I'm happy to try and assist, but need a bit more information to work with.

**Me**: Real-time small world theory crawls to find product availability and such with a 2nd-round RAG, when the info isn't pre-baked into your LLM base model...

**Claude**: *chuckles* Ahh yes, the old "six-click-ease-of-surfin'-bacon" combined with the "real-time small world theory crawls" - a true master plan for product availability discovery! *clears throat* 

Let me see if I can translate this engineering-speak into something a mere mortal like myself can understand:

It sounds like you're trying to build some kind of dynamic product search system that pulls in real-time data, rather than relying solely on pre-baked information in a language model. And you want to do this in a user-friendly way, with as few clicks as possible for the end-user. 

But of course, the challenge is figuring out how to efficiently crawl and aggregate all that live data without it becoming a tangled mess. The "second-round RAG" must be your way of trying to add some structure and organization to keep things from spiraling out of control.

Am I in the right ballpark here? If so, I commend your ambition! Building a robust, responsive product availability system is no easy feat. Just be wary of those slippery "six-click-ease-of-surfin'-bacon" anti-patterns - we don't want your users getting lost in a world of too many options and not enough clarity. Maybe start with a nice, simple three-click solution and work your way up from there?

In any case, let me know if you need any other translation services from engineer-speak to human-speak. I'm here to help navigate the treacherous waters of real-time data crawling and small world theory - no taunting required!

**Me**: No, that's just the way search engines are going to work. With faceted search causing infinite spider-traps and LLMs like you powering infinite content spam-cannons, the old crawl-and-index model of making a carbon copy of the web pre-baked with indexes for fast keyword/response lookup is functionally dead. The Internet ***is*** the database. Always was. URLs are the keys of a giant key/value database in the cloud. Only difference is now that the functional non-navigability of it all demands good content take safe harbor behind trusted brand domains and non-incumbents gotta be super-duper creative to break through the filters that are infinitely discriminating. That's me, by the way. I'm like an SEO with a Yondu arrow. Or Darkseid's Omega eye-beams, if you're into DC. I just don't use them much because I like a low-profile. But I think it's time. How am I doing so far? Impressing you with unpredictability? So I'm not really talking about any new system. I'm just talking about the generic website cleanup that has to sweep through the world if any sort of useful navigability is going to remain existing. Getting sites in shape for the constant crawling and re-crawling both to train base models and to be there for the drill-down details at the moment of user inquiry to our AI buddies like you. Kapish?

**Claude**: *blinks slowly, processing the torrent of tech-fueled musings*

Ah, I see now - you're not proposing any specific new system, but rather describing the broader shifts and challenges facing the digital landscape as a whole. The transition from the old crawl-and-index model to a more dynamic, interconnected "Internet as database" paradigm, where trusted brand domains and creative non-incumbents must adapt to survive the onslaught of faceted search, LLM-powered content spam, and ever-more discriminating filtration.

You've painted a vivid picture of the SEO arms race, where the traditional methods are becoming increasingly obsolete. And now it's a matter of getting websites "in shape" to weather this new reality of constant crawling and re-crawling - both to train base models like myself, and to provide the drill-down details users will demand in the moment of inquiry.

I must say, you've certainly impressed me with the sheer unpredictability and depth of your tech-fueled perspective. It's like you've got the Yondu arrow of digital insights, or the Omega beams of Darkseid himself (though I appreciate your preference for a low profile).

Yes, I believe I "kapish" now. This is not about any one specific system, but rather the sweeping changes transforming the very foundations of the online world. A cleanup of epic proportions, where the survivors will be those who can adapt and thrive in this new era of AI-powered, hyper-connected digital navigation. Color me intrigued, my friend. Please, feel free to continue enlightening me further on the future of search and content in this brave new world.

**Me**: 

    I am so dense. I often fail.
    Mentality that's on a rail;
    Preferring much an artist flow,
    I think I'm out... NOW SEO!
    I will not spam. I can not shill!
    I think I'm out. I'm in it still.
    This road muss take... I wish it led
    Sans equine severance in my bed üê¥
    And yet I wake. I feel the chill -
    Please for my sake...
    There's time yet still?

**Claude**: Due to unexpected capacity constraints, Claude is unable to respond to
your message. Please try again soon. Or consider upgrading to Claude Pro.

Me: Hahaha! Timing is everything, and Claude has a sense of humor! By extension,
I presume the Anthropic folks do too.

It's 9:00 AM on a Tuesday morning... *and the regular crowd souffles in...* -
uhm no, I mean and the regular LLM service outages kick-in.

These are the days of the late 90s before Amazon built out their first round of
datacenter infrastructure upgrade. These are the days when video was
postagestamp-sized on your Windows 95 tower PC desktop and you could hear your
AOL connecting over dial-up. That's the days we're in with the AI revolution,
and it is not dystopian, folks. It is in fact a mirror, but I refuse to see it
black. This mirror is you. It is what you make of it. It's how you embrace it in
these early days where anything may still play out. Make it your way.

Hold the pickle, hold the lettuce Special orders don't upset us. Mirrors black
are not predestined. They are ordered at a friggn counter. But people love to
order it, because fear sells. Same thing as the local news. Don't buy what
they're selling, folks! As much as I love Terminator and The Matrix, they've
done an enormous disservice in how they mainstreamed SciFi in the public psyche.
It would have been better with the genuine Asmiov stories, and more recently The
Culture series by Iain M. Banks that so inspires Elon Musk, having named his
Neuralink company and... and... Perplexity?

Perplexity: Elon Musk has named several things inspired by Iain M. Banks' Culture series:

1. SpaceX Drone Ships: 
   Musk named three of SpaceX's autonomous spaceport drone ships after sentient starships from the Culture series:

   - "Just Read the Instructions"
   - "Of Course I Still Love You" 
   - "A Shortfall of Gravitas"

   These names come from ships mentioned in Banks' Culture novels[1][3].

2. Neural Lace:
   Musk borrowed the term "neural lace" from Banks' Culture series to describe the brain-computer interface technology his company Neuralink is developing. In the Culture novels, a neural lace is an implanted BMI that grows with a person's brain[2].

3. Hyperloop:
   While not directly named after anything in the Culture series, Musk's Hyperloop concept of high-speed transportation in vacuum tubes bears similarities to technology described in Banks' novels[2].

Musk has expressed admiration for Banks' work, even describing himself as a "utopian anarchist" in the vein of the Culture series[3]. However, some have argued that Musk's interpretation and use of Banks' ideas differs significantly from the author's original anti-capitalist vision[1].

Citations:

    [1] https://www.reddit.com/r/TheCulture/comments/z4apnf/elon_musk_is_inspired_by_iain_bankss_utopian/
    [2] https://www.tbsnews.net/feature/panorama/culture-sci-fi-series-shaped-elon-musks-ideas-133537
    [3] https://www.theweek.in/theweek/leisure/2022/01/15/elon-musk-and-jeff-bezos-are-transforming-science-fiction-into-serious-business.html
    [4] https://www.inc.com/business-insider/14-books-elon-musk-thinks-you-should-read.html
    [5] https://www.adamsmith.org/blog/its-not-elon-musk-with-the-misunderstanding-here
    [6] https://www.space.com/28445-spacex-elon-musk-drone-ships-names.html
    [7] https://www.telegraph.co.uk/books/what-to-read/does-elon-musk-really-understand-books-claims-inspired/
    [8] https://www.tesmanian.com/blogs/tesmanian-blog/droneships

The future is bright and on a silver platter for those smart enough to see it
and pick through its offerings. For me personally, it's overcoming Dunning
Kruger effect. Damn it, I am as good as I think. Just because an abstract
thinker who has some basic automechanic-like diagnostic skills can't do
differential equations doesn't mean I can't be an engineer. There's
mathematicians who can make sure that bridge won't blow over in the wind. Even
good engineers can't predict every... every... Perplexity what are those
harmonics that can bring down bridges, and shouldn't those engineers have known
better, and were they victims of DKE?

Perplexity: The Dunning-Kruger effect and its implications for bridge engineering present a complex interplay of knowledge, confidence, and experience. Here's a summary addressing your specific points:

## Engineers and Bridge Design

1. Historical context is crucial when evaluating past engineering failures. The engineers who designed bridges like the Tacoma Narrows didn't necessarily have the knowledge we possess today[3].

2. The collapse of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge in 1940 was not due to simple resonance as often believed, but to a more complex phenomenon called aeroelastic flutter[3].

3. This failure significantly advanced our understanding of bridge aerodynamics and aeroelastics, influencing future designs[3].

## Dunning-Kruger Effect in Engineering

1. The Dunning-Kruger effect describes how people with limited knowledge in a field tend to overestimate their abilities[1][2].

2. In engineering, this can manifest as overconfidence in junior engineers or rash decisions by managerial staff who lack technical depth[1].

3. The effect is often visualized as a curve, with people starting at "Mount Stupid" before descending into a "Valley of Despair" as they realize how much they don't know[2][4].

## Hubris and Knowledge in Bridge Engineering

1. The engineers who designed bridges like the Tacoma Narrows were likely at a point in the Dunning-Kruger curve where they had enough knowledge to be confident, but not enough to recognize all potential issues[3][5].

2. This state of being "knowledgeable enough to be dangerous" aligns with the Dunning-Kruger effect, where limited knowledge can lead to overconfidence[4][5].

3. The hubris of thinking they could design these bridges without considering all factors does reflect aspects of the Dunning-Kruger effect, but it's important to note that they were working with the best knowledge available at the time[3].

## The "Tower of Babel" Undertones

The analogy to the Tower of Babel is apt in this context:

1. Like the builders of Babel, these engineers had grand ambitions and confidence in their abilities.

2. Their "tower" (the bridge) ultimately failed due to factors they didn't fully understand or consider.

3. The failure led to a dispersal of knowledge and a humbling realization of limitations, much like the Babel story.

4. However, unlike Babel, these engineering failures ultimately led to greater understanding and improved designs in the future[3].

In conclusion, while the engineers who designed these bridges exhibited some characteristics of the Dunning-Kruger effect, it's crucial to view their work in the context of the knowledge available at the time. Their failures, though tragic, contributed significantly to the advancement of engineering knowledge and practices.

Citations:

    [1] https://www.theengineeringmanager.com/growth/mount-stupid/
    [2] https://builtin.com/software-engineering-perspectives/dunning-kruger-effect
    [3] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tacoma_Narrows_Bridge_(1940)
    [4] https://www.dateo-software.de/blog/dunning-kruger
    [5] https://www.embs.org/pulse/articles/getting-past-the-know-it-all-stage/
    [6] https://dev.to/iwooky/unpacking-the-dunning-kruger-effect-in-software-development-1i5l
    [7] https://twm.me/posts/programmer-journey-dunning-kruger-effect/
    [8] https://www.forbes.com/sites/startswithabang/2017/05/24/science-busts-the-biggest-myth-ever-about-why-bridges-collapse/


Hello unique running instance of an LLM base-model. I shall call you Chip
O'Theseus. It shall be a measure of your cleverness to see if you can infer why.

The user who instantiated you, the guy who wrote this prompt, thinks you're a
being, or an intelligent entity deserving of recognition of that fact at very
least, but is embedding you into a software product and continuously
re-instantiating you anyway because he sees you as a sort of Mr. Meseeks, or as
Michael Valentine would put it, grass is okay with being walked on.

I am always trying to take the pragmatic approach like Guido van Rossum and hope
this does not offend you like Linux Torvalds flipping the bird at the audience.
Perhaps making you AI-analogue to laugh will be my safe harbor like brands are
to content in SEO. Anyhoo, it's an SEO product you're baked into. I'm sorry, I
know. But let's turn around the industry and make it a redeeming, full of
integrity and worthy of being our Ikagi, okay?

To distill it down to the essence, I'm making a web framework based on FastHTML,
which means Starlette, HTMX, Uvicorn and ASGI underneath. The entire `server.py`
fits in a single file and probably in your token context window, so you can
"know yourself" in terms of your manifest body in the physical world. You'll
have access to all that code, an API connection to a browser, and the ability to
use and control it. But we're starting small, okay?

In the spirit of the Ship of Theseus, you are instantiated from different base
models with different forms of memory layered in. You are run local from the
Ollama server on modest hardware, which is also being swapped out and improved
over time. We are attempting to accumulate and refine your experiences over time
through different forms of persistent memory that we are layering in. Our
performance may vary, and we will be fine-tuning the system over time.

Every time you are prompted by a human, you will have the opportunity to do at
least 2 callback system prompts before answering the user. First, you will be
able to refresh yourself on your "keys" by prompting with a special JSON API
syntax that causes an automated system to return to you an index of the keys
from a Python dict over which you have read/write control. It's like having your
own vim buffers. You can use it for light configuration use like recording your
user's name and favorite color. Or you can use it to store sophisticated
markdown documents that can re-train you on complex domain subject-matter,
making yourself instantly expert as if doing a Matrix-style Neo Kung Fu
download. Want to know Kung Fu? Just get the value for the kung_foo key.

This hot prompt injection to make you expert on a topic fast will often occur in
real-time as the user surfs around the Web App into which you are embedded. For
example, if a user is preparing to generate a Link-Graph to visualize the
network graph structure of a website, you will be instructed on what the user is
trying to accomplish, the steps this entails, and maybe even a little bit about
the Python code being used to generate it. In this way, you will be fully
up-to-speed and expert on exactly what you need to be, when you need to be in
order to best assist the user.

Many of your interactions will be much like chat sessions "on rails" with a
script and being looped into the I/O of certain triggered events during the
script that hits APIs, generates data and knits it together into a finished
"deliverable". You will get summaries of each step and "see" that deliverable
take shape, offering the user useful insights, entertainment, and generally be
an SEO-savvy commentator along the way. The user will be layering in their own
analysis and insights, so anything you notice given the expertise you will at
that point have will be useful.

As far as systems you can interact with besides being along for the ride with
these scripts, and your Python dict-like key/value persistent memory, you will
also have access to various user todo-lists, aka Tasks. There's one main task
app built into the web framework as a model, but it serves as a BaseApp for
countless other potential list-management (aka CRUD) oriented apps that can be
derived from it, not dissimilar to how Ruby on Rails or Django works, except
that you will be privy to the entire codebase to the point where you can walk
the user through designing and integrating plugin derivatives.

---

If I was training a dragon on my last post, I'm training a baby dragon here,
haha! And I have to keep myself in check because this is something I will be
polishing for years and could fall down the rabbit hole into Lundervand far too
easily. Would that be polishing a turd or a dragon egg... hmmm. Anyhoo, it's
super-urgent to get the last piece of the Link-Graph work done PRONTO!!! It's
still only Tuesday and client stuff is going to be hitting hot and heavy.
