---
title: Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg)
permalink: /LPvg/
layout: default
---

# Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg)

## The Philosophy of Freedom in Technology

There's a larger discussion here about Unix and portability of everything, and a
whole bad boy philosophy of yanking back the good stuff for the masses after
corporate greed appropriates it, as GE and Bell Labs almost did from Fernando
Corbató with Multics until still living national treasure Ken Thompson yanked it
back with Unix. That got absconded with once again by big tech, so Linus
Torvalds yanked it back with Linux, in an eternal repeating story.

## The Power of LPvg

Today, a smattering of the tools that they created and liberated can't be taken
away from you by vendor shenanigans because they're the very tools ***they***
have to use to build their own stuff. And with the exception of the C
programming language that takes a level of something that I seem to not have, I
find the others manageable over time with practice & even the legendarily
difficult vim text editor that everyone builds the "mode" for in. Find out why.

## A Minimum Viable Platform for Life

I advocate Linux, Python, vim and git, collectively the LPvg as the minimum
viable platform for life. There's plenty of other stuff you can (and should)
take up in life for your day-job, as the right tool for the job or whatever. But
having LPvg in your back pocket future-proofs you and makes you able to do stuff
and be a valuable contributor in almost any environment today and long into the
future.

## Interactive Learning with Jupyter Notebooks

Now, there's also Jupyter Notebooks for a generic, free and open source software
(FOSS) place to run your Python in a fun and interactive Web-based way that
doesn't require the cloud. It is neither Microsoft VSCode nor Google Colab,
though they both emulate it. And it's JupyterLab, in particular to stave off
having to use vim right away, and to get interactive web dashboards in addition
to embedding markdown documentation and code in a sharable form.

## The Game Changer: Nix

And you know what? The final piece just fell into place. It's called Nix. And
NixOS, but you need not use the OS, necessarily. Nix scratches various itches. A
big one is a way for Mac and Windows users to exchange definition scripts for
fully working environments including software from a huge nix software
repository system.

## Simplifying Environment Sharing

So if you don't want to build something as a Web app, and you maybe want it to
run from a Python Notebook and be sharable, Nix provides easy environment
sharing so you don't have to follow tedious install instructions every time you
need to spin-up such-and-such a system. And it's without containers or virtual
machines. And these system definitions start with a simple configuration.nix
file.

## The Power of Configuration

Almost any tutorial you find that shows you how to build a system has a long
process of install this then do that, getting all the components that the
application is dependent on onto your system, then configuring it to work. A
popular shortcut lately has been container technology such as Docker, which has
its own set of ssues. Alternatively, Nix is an imperative system configuration
language, like SQL or HTML, but for configuring whole systems that does away
with the need, generally with a single file that replaces all...

- apt-get (Debian, Ubuntu)
- Homebrew (macOS)
- pip (Python)
- virtualenv (Python)
- Conda (Python, R, and other scientific computing)
- npm (Node.js)
- gem (Ruby)
- Composer (PHP)
- Cargo (Rust)
- yum (Red Hat, CentOS)
- dnf (Fedora, newer Red Hat-based systems)
- zypper (openSUSE)
- pacman (Arch Linux)
- winget (Windows)
- Chocolatey (Windows)
- Scoop (Windows)
- Maven (Java)
- Gradle (Java, Kotlin, Android)
- NuGet (C#, .NET)
- Yarn (JavaScript, alternative to npm)
- vcpkg (C++)
- Conan (C/C++)
- APK (Alpine Linux)
- Portage (Gentoo Linux)
- Flatpak (Linux, distribution-agnostic)
- Snap (Ubuntu, other Linux distributions)
- AppImage (Linux, distribution-agnostic)
- custom driver or whatever environment variable stuff baked-in

If you're using NixOS, you configure generally a single configuration.nix file
like a great big JSON file that defines your system, and Ta-da! Portable system
for life. The configuration files work great in git repositories. For more
granular control, there's a system called Nix Flakes. If you're on Mac or
Windows, you get most of the same benefits by using the `nix` command from
within subfolders of Macs or Windows (generally, with WSL).

## A New Era of Portability

This portable tech system without containers or VMs that works across different
hardware (with some occasional adjustments) appeals to me. More than a decade
ago, I created Levinux, a highly portable QEMU-based VM for hacking around with.
But it was a lot of moving parts to wrangle for such little performance. But I
made attempts at building what I was looking for. I also played around with
containers, and not just Docker, but also Ubuntu's LXD, which was great for
those who loved reliable pre-built containers you could treat like a fresh
install, so you can script some level of reproducibility.

## The Limitations of Containers

But such cobbled-together system-building approaches from containers is not
something that cuts across decades. But a script to build the exact same thing
from the exact same historical (often GitHub) places if not already cached. So,
everything's pinned with working versions and a sort of undo/redo,
rebuild-from-scratch small tech stack that will travel well.

## The Benefits of a Repository System

Such a repo system not only lets you set up an entire running NixOS system which
is a popular use for Nix (what I now use), but it also lets you create
sub-systems on either:
- macOS
- Windows
- The Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
- Other Linuxes

that are exactly the same across different machines. And this is where getting
better at tech tools for life comes in.

## Mastering LPvg for Lifelong Improvement

You define a good Linux, Python, vim & git (LPvg) to travel with you, and get
good at using this small set of tools on a wide set of problems, and improve for
life in tech, like you can in:
- music
- sports
- woodworking
- or anything where the tools let you improve forever for life, without so much
  churn that it's hardly worth learning everything

## Embrace the Future with NixOS

Each of these tools is a potential rabbit hole in their own right, especially
Linux. But if you're resisting obsolescence with a vengeance, after you've
learned the basics with a version like Ubuntu or OpenSuse, you're going to want
to look at NixOS, the ultimate in infusing the spirit of the machine into new
hardware from now to forever. Even virtual machines and containers seem kind of
silly in comparison.
