---
title: On Multiple Small Passes (Chisel-strikes)
permalink: /futureproof/multiple-passes/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

You're not going to get there right away. It takes multiple passes. Each pass is
a little refinement. Only so much can fit in a 24-hour day, and as I learned
recently, trying to push yourself significantly beyond that is going to result
in a kind of crash with your body rejecting, and a phase of catch-up as your
body demands the sleep it needs to function, and maybe a little bit more.

The pendulum swings both ways, and if you somehow find the energy to double-down
and focus, finding enough love (or urgency or whatever) in what you do to bear
down and give it greater-than-normal amount of work it takes to get done, maybe
for consecutive days and maybe at the expense of other things, then you might
achieve that goal but there is a toll to pay.

It can be worth doing, if the accomplishment is of the sort that is forever with
you and somehow forever improves your life. Getting over that initial hurdle to
learn the vim text editor is a lot like that. Deep startup cost that's going to
take some extra effort up-front, but over time it won't stop paying off and so
was worth doing in the first place. The last article was about banking wins.

So we've got something like a prescribed rhythm developing here. On occasions in
your life when you have to put a herculean effort behind something, it's okay to
clear your calendar and your mind and bear down with that single-minded
determination to get it done. But don't do this too often in your life, because
it's the initial out-of-balance startup cost that your body can't take you
paying too often. Be kind to yourself. 

But then you have to keep tension in the machinery. Letting up for too long will
cause a backsliding and loss of forward progress and momentum. Skills fade, so
if you're focusing on a skill that you want to keep and keep sharp, you then
enter a phase of daily chisel-strikes. Or multiple chisel-strikes per day, each
chisel-strike some sort of no-takebacks banked accomplishment.

Lather, rinse, repeat, and you might have something. Maybe not. Your entire
original premise or belief that this is even the skill you wanted might be
wrong, and it probably does take about 10 years or 10,000 hours to master a
skill as that... what's that guideline? Perplexity?

The 10,000-hour rule, popularized by Malcolm Gladwell in his book "Outliers," suggests that it takes approximately 10,000 hours of practice to achieve mastery in a complex skill[1][2]. This equates to roughly 10 years of dedicated practice, assuming about 20 hours per week[3].

However, it's important to note several key points about this guideline:

1. Quality of practice matters: The rule emphasizes deliberate, focused practice under the guidance of an expert or skilled coach, not just any kind of practice[5][7].

2. It's an average, not a fixed rule: The actual time required can vary significantly between individuals and fields[7].

3. It applies to complex skills: Simpler skills may require less time to master[6].

4. Practice is not the only factor: While important, practice accounts for only about 20-25% of skill variation in various fields[7].

5. Other factors matter: Age, genetics, and quality of instruction also play significant roles in skill development[7].

Recent research has shown that the 10,000-hour rule is more of a general guideline than a strict rule. The time required to achieve mastery can range from 728 to 16,120 hours, depending on the individual and the field[7].

In essence, while extensive practice is crucial for developing expertise, the "10,000-hour rule" should be viewed as a simplified representation of the dedication and effort required to master a complex skill, rather than a precise formula for success[8].

Citations:

    [1] https://www.reddit.com/r/getdisciplined/comments/hklia6/method_if_you_follow_the_10000_hour_rule_life/
    [2] https://www.followyourbuyer.com/doc/the-hour-rule-0001
    [3] https://amworkshops.com/tips-techniques/learning-1-of-the-10000-hours-rule/
    [4] https://www.scotthyoung.com/blog/2024/01/23/10000-hr-rule-myth/
    [5] https://www.edsurge.com/news/2020-05-05-researcher-behind-10-000-hour-rule-says-good-teaching-matters-not-just-practice
    [6] https://www.reddit.com/r/TechnoProduction/comments/ttetms/thoughts_on_10000_hour_rule/
    [7] https://www.6seconds.org/2022/06/20/10000-hour-rule/
    [8] https://jamesclear.com/deliberate-practice-strategy

Nice, the copy-response feature in Perplexity is back. Pshwew! I almost switched
to ChatGPT Search there.
