---
title: Fighting Analysis Paralysis
permalink: /futureproof/fighting-analysis-paralysis/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 2
---

## Taking Action Over Analysis

Okay, don't let yourself get paralyzed into inaction through the abstract. Get a
communication out to the client ASAP, and free up the rest of your weekend on
what you really need to do to move things forward, at which time you should
repeat the exact same warning to not let yourself get paralyzed into inaction
through the abstract.

The abstract will paralyze you, per the classic paralysis through analysis
expression. That expression spontaneously recurs for a reason, it is the human
tendency and a natural risk-adverse position. Once bitten, twice shy.

## Purpose and Process

This article is to help me forge forward through today, some very hard
communication I need to do, but which also sets the groundwork for everything
moving forward. I don't need the roadmap for this communication but I will need
it for next week, but the roadmap in the work that I should be should be just
about a 2-week period of time, but circular and with a copy of itself over-top
itself, rotationally offset by 1-week.

See? It's a 2-week process but waiting the full 2-weeks for results is
ultimately unsatisfying, so there is always one at bat and one on deck, so we
can double the amount of things getting done for each client.

## PageWorkers and SEO Strategy

It's painful, but the way we're probably going to measure these things is as
individual JavaScript SEO edits in the system of my employer, called
PageWorkers. My premise and value proposition will soon be as follows:

If you don't have the PageWorkers part of the Botify product, you probably can't
get the advantage of using the Advantage SEO Consulting group. That's because
there aren't an awful lot of levers you can pull for SEO all that easily with a
rapid feedback cycle, but deploying tiny SEO edits in JavaScript is one of them.

### The Power of JavaScript SEO Edits

Doing so also creates a log of edits and changes that should actually be done in
the system proper, whether it's something you have direct control over as if
it's your own system, or if you're using some cloud hosting service which is the
norm these days, like Shopify. Our system transparently layers over top almost
any system no matter how its hosted, allowing the performing of SEO directly on
the site by the SEO consultants themselves, without necessarily even going
through the tech group. This turns software as a service (Saas) into managed
services. Have an SaaS product, and then manage it for the client. Accumulate a
log of optimization edits, and turn it into a specification for new migrations
and replatformings moving forward.

But you shouldn't have to wait until the PageWorkers optimizations accumulate up
for the migration guides and new site specifications. We've been at it long
enough that we can proactively look at all the sorts of optimizations we've had
to do and make an overarching guide that should work for everyone. But that's
another story, and this is exactly the sort of analysis dodging the work at hand
that I need to bring under control. Get to the work at hand.

## Project Structure Template

Let's start out with my skeletal structure for the script:

```yaml
Example:
  site:
    domain:
    sitemap:
    robots_txt:
    llms_txt:
  size:
    google:
    bing:
  gsc:
    site:
    url:
    performance_12m:
    index:
  bing:
    site:
    url:
  botify:
    org:
    project:
    project_url:
  decks:
    agenda:
    worksession:
    summary:
```

## The Art of Storytelling vs Powerpoint

There's a few things going on here that I should articulate. First, I don't
believe much in preparing Powerpoint style decks. Even as we're firmly in the
age of Google Slides (over Powerpoints), the language and negative reaction is
deep in my system. Yet, yet...

Yet, storytelling remains paramount. Front and center is the human experience.
Charts and graphs are lovely, but there's something about picking someone up by
the scruff of the neck and leading them through the experience... controlling
the messaging and instilling an experience.

### The Power of Sequential Storytelling

And that usually screams one screen, the next screen, the next screen. It's the
storyboard thing. You're telling stories, and the most powerful "random access"
way to fill the screen and the human view-port is through consistently sized
images. Sometimes it's cards up on a wall. Sometimes it's slides in a deck. But
even though I hate Powerpoint/GSlides, I don't hate storyboards or storytelling.
I think it's the bite of the proprietary bug, again. 

### Breaking Free from Proprietary Formats

Something as fundamental as storytelling has no right to be locked up in formats
that can't just be displayed on any hardware, under any conditions. I think this
is in fact part of the driving force of the Web. There were plenty of hypermedia
things before it, from Apple's Hypercard to AOL/Prodigy. But it was the
hypermedia hypertext on open standards that lit the world on fire. It seemed
like solid validation that Powerpoint is just wrong.

### Rethinking Presentation Investment

But part of the premise is that much time, energy and effort was spent on
something that got locked-up in proprietary platforms. The thinking changes once
you accept that these can be low-investment, slam-them-out things. They don't
have to be perfect and they don't have to be designed with a long shelf-life in
mind. And perhaps most importantly of all, the underlying system that pushes
the information out to you, for screenshotting or whatever, can be as FOSSy as
you like.

### The Power of YAML and Linear Thinking

And that's how I start going into this weekend. Whether the storytelling uses
slideshow decks or just a bunch of URLs that are bookmarked or that you know how
to surf to, there is... what? Knowing the story to tell. Knowing how to proceed
from one thing to the next... the flow.

And that's why I keep coming back to YAML. It's just like typing out lists in
text. It's linear, because no matter how you format things, it's still a
top-to-bottom list. Text is text. That's one of the biggest lessons of
future-proofing here on this site. Most tech is text, as plain old fashioned
text-files. And if your tech is not directly text-files, it most certainly is
indirectly. LLM training, for example. Interoperable anything. Gotta be text.

### Structured Data Through Simple Text

So when thinking out loud and organizing ideas, even for storytelling in this
case, just making those tiny concessions to YAML rules, your thinking out loud
becomes ready-to-load structured data. No, not just a raw textfile, but pretty
much any data structure you can make with JSON or Python standard datatypes,
such as dicts and lists.

### Planning the Path Forward

Okay, you've got a good plan for today and going into the weekend. It's about
linear story telling with YAML which could directly be loaded as data and used
for stuff, but doesn't necessarily have to be. But it will effectively be the
"roadmap" for every client engagement, but when you loop that linear YAML around
in a circle, it's the positive feedback loop.

And regarding the communication to the client, I got it out. It was Powerpoint
style storytelling. It's going to be tough to get that out of the picture even
when we go to using the built into the product custom reports.

The stories then become even more reliant on what I'm building. There's really
nothing that couldn't be un-hardwired (not put into decks), if the linear story
brought up the correct webpage at a time, layering in the narrative.

Hmmm, is it time to add a voice to the local LLM?

**Me**: Is there stuff like ElevenLabs but for running local? Free and open source?

**Perplexity**: Yes, there are several free and open-source alternatives to ElevenLabs that can be run locally on your machine:

1. Coqui TTS: An open-source project originally started by Mozilla's team. It allows for voice cloning and supports 13 languages. While the company behind it shut down in early 2024, the code remains available on GitHub[3][5].

2. StyleTTS2: This model offers quality comparable to ElevenLabs and can be run 100% locally. It's particularly fast when combined with other open-source components like Whisper and OpenHermes2-Mistral-7B[6].

3. XTTS-v2: A popular voice generation model capable of cloning voices into different languages with just a 6-second audio sample. Although the company behind it shut down, the source code is still available on GitHub and remains one of the most downloaded TTS models on Hugging Face[5].

4. Kokoro TTS: A powerful text-to-speech tool that can be installed and run locally for free. It's considered a great alternative to ElevenLabs and other paid TTS services[7].

5. VALL-E X: An open-source implementation of Microsoft's VALL-E X zero-shot text-to-speech model. It allows for voice cloning with just a short audio sample and supports multiple languages[8].

6. F5TTS: This AI voice model can be run locally and offers results comparable to ElevenLabs. It includes a web UI for easy use[9].

These alternatives offer various features such as voice cloning, multilingual support, and customization options. They can be installed and run on your local machine, providing faster processing and unlimited use without the need for an internet connection or subscription fees.

Citations:

    [1] https://nerdynav.com/open-source-ai-voice/
    [2] https://www.datacamp.com/blog/best-open-source-text-to-speech-tts-engines
    [3] https://crikk.com/elevenlabs-alternatives/
    [4] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQLENKh7wIQ
    [5] https://www.bentoml.com/blog/exploring-the-world-of-open-source-text-to-speech-models
    [6] https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=38335255
    [7] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HZJmm94h9xk
    [8] https://fosspost.org/open-source-speech-recognition
    [9] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FTqAQvARMEg
    [10] https://www.toolify.ai/ai-news/free-alternative-to-elevenlabs-xtts2-local-voice-cloning-1316363
    [11] https://www.edenai.co/post/top-free-text-to-speech-tools-apis-and-open-source-models
    [12] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Xocpm2ddN8
    [13] https://modal.com/blog/open-source-tts

---

## Avoiding Voice Generation Rabbit Holes

Hmmm, this sounds appealing, but it is also a potential rabbit hole and not
critical for today. Focus only on those things that are critical and get the
momentum going, without increasing complexity. 

## YAML Stories and Workflow Systems

Okay, so I've got the clear idea of the story as told in YAML, so that it's
easily loadable and parsable in Python. But I don't want to get locked onto
working out this workflow before the workflow system has the hardest parts
worked out yet, which is what will benefit most from my weekend energy -- if I
can even muster it.

## Dealing with Startup Friction

The fact I can't tackle this fresh and with vigor and verve every time, means
there's startup friction on a per-day or per-session basis. And there absolutely
should not be. That is precisely what this system is supposed to prevent. By
getting large JavaScript frameworks and client-side state syncing out of the
picture, leaning into FastHTML / HTMX / Nix, everything should become simpler.
Eliminating large enterprise scaling concerns in favor of local host full access
to the machine and direct manipulation of the DOM with HTMX should... well,
simplify. It should reduce friction.

## The Replatforming Journey

A certain amount of this may still just be the massive replatforming I've
undergone, ditching Windows, ditching Mac all in favor of NixOS, which gives me
back Windows and Mac in one fell swoop. I've taken up the Nix way, and along
that way is steep learning curve and then future-proofing. And there's some pain
there, and I'm feeling that pain. I'm scratching the hardest to reach itch with
the best back scratcher ever invented, but I'm learning how it all works.

### Learning HTMX

Also, there's HTMX itself. It's not really so much FastHTML, as that's basically
just another Flask ripoff, like nearly every other Python web framework. It's
just that in eliminating templating systems in favor of HTMX... well-- you have
to know HTMX attributes and all their nuances.

### Embracing the Challenge

Yup. I'm suffering compounding replatforming syndrome. But honestly, I love it.
I've struggled to find ways to scratch this itch over the years, and finally I'm
in a position to do it with nix. But it takes some commitment and persistence
from the perspective of the developer.

## The End User Experience

Of course, when it's done it should just be 2 commands for the user of things
built with my framework:

- One to install nix
- Two to run the app
