---
title: "AI and the Future of Work: Will We Become Sheep or Shepherds?"
permalink: /futureproof/ai-work-sheep-or-shepherds/
description: This article explores the challenges of maintaining creativity and productivity in the age of AI. It examines the historical evolution of communication technologies, from spoken word to the internet, and argues that AI is the next major revolution. The author emphasizes the importance of critical thinking and "future-proofing" oneself by using timeless tools like Linux, Vim, and Python. The article also touches on the potential dangers of over-reliance on AI, leading to a passive consumption of information. Ultimately, it encourages readers to become "shepherds" who actively shape their own learning and creative processes, rather than "sheep" who passively follow AI-generated paths.
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

## The Challenge of Creative Work

Doing inspired work and being creative on-demand is challenging, especially with
the advent of AI like Claude 3.5 Sonnet, which tends to follow established
paths. My project stalled for a week due to distractions, but I'm getting back
to it. AI's lack of inventive capacity raises questions about its intelligence
and our reliance on it. Throughout history, communication technologies like
language, writing, the printing press, and the internet have shaped society.

Now, AI is poised to be the next big information revolution, offering mentorship
and guidance. However, it's crucial to be mindful of the potential downsides, as
those who rely too heavily on AI may become passive consumers of information. To
stay ahead, we need to embrace critical thinking and creativity. I'm
recommitting to my project and future-proofing my skills by focusing on timeless
tools like Linux and Vim, and writing in Python to remain vendor-independent.

---

## The Double Whammy of Inspired Work

Doing inspired work takes just radically so much more time than you would think
or want, and mustering the motivation for it is so much harder than you would
think, that combined it is a double whammy detriment to inspired and inventive
productivity. Being creative on-demand! That is a tall order. Most people follow
the leader. And now that there's AI, the leader is automatic and bottled, and so
you have a canned leader to follow, so that you can abide by the perfect path
more traveled best practices for any given road you want to forge.

### The Limitations of AI Guidance

Sounds like an oxymoron? You have an illuminated guide and mentor in the form of
say for example Claude 3.5 Sonnet built into Cursor AI. It can code pretty well.
But it wants to code one particular way, the way it knows, the way it's been
trained on. It doesn't know anything else, so how could it really help you down
the dark, unilluminated roads? How can it help you forge a previously unknown
path through the dense underbrush, hatchetting away with your machete through
the realm of the previously unexplored?

### The Power of Journaling

And so my project stalled out. But only by a week or so. I got distracted by
life and by work. And so this, my special project got put by the wayside for a
week or so. But this is my chance to get back into it. But more than anything
else, it's a matter of regaining state. It's a matter of finding where you were.
"Where was I?", I ask myself. And my daily technical journal helps me find my
way. Journaling is a way-finder. Journaling is a form of bootstrapping agency.

## AI and Human Intelligence

I'm going to have to remember that. One of the big criticisms of AI today is
that they don't have the capacity to invent things new. Sometimes it's asked,
like I remember hearing Dario Amodei discussing with Lex Fridman whether an AI
could spontaneously come up with the theory of relativity given all the same
material to work with as Einstein had in his day. And I ask myself, could most
humans do that? Wow, what a high standard we're going to hold AIs to as to
whether they're really intelligent in a way on-par with humans. They're going to
have to be able to out-think our smartest humans and with a sort of creative
initiative we're remiss to give them out of safety, ethics and energy/resource
reasons.

### Human Nature and AI Integration

But the take-away lesson is, wow! Are we going to be deferring A LOT to AIs.
Humans are naturally lazy and shortcut-seeking in the best of circumstances.
That's just how we're wired. The brain requires so much oxygen and fuel to
think, that we have all kinds of heuristic loopholes to get us off the hook for
so much thinking. That's learning. That's habits. After awhile of facing
environmental pressures, we learn to automatically follow those patterns of
behaviors that keep us alive and well. Over days or weeks, those become habits.
Over centuries and eons, those get coded into us through epigentics and natural
selection. AI is going to intertwine with our evolution just like any other
tool.

## The Evolution of Communication Technologies

Now I'm not saying that's good or bad. It's like any other tool at any other
pivotal time in history. I mean it really breaks down along the lines of
communication and the technologies that ability to aid the tool user in
recreating ideas from others in their own minds. It's thought-encoding and
thought-decoding, and general information-transmission and communication
technologies that have made the difference. Sure, tool-use itself is important,
but the knowledge and know-how of how to build and use the tools would die out
in a generation or two if not at least for high-resolution transmission of
thoughts through word of mouth. Storytelling. Oral traditions.

### From Spoken Word to Written Language

And so, it most likely started with the spoken word. Or at least verbalizations
that had particular meaning. Language. To some degree, language is mechanically
a part of us. The capacity for language is in all sorts of life-forms. Humans
are not unique in this regard. However, making the leap to the written word does
seem to be rather unique. No matter how much dolphins and chimps might appear to
have their own dialects and language-based rituals, you're probably not going to
find them written down anywhere. So they can encode and decode ideas in an
extremely ephemeral way. It's the permanence of written language that really is
the next big technological innovation.

### The Rise of Scribes

A lot of credit for written language is given to accounting, especially during
domestication and the shift from hunting lifestyles to herding. How many of
such-and-such animals belong to whom? The cave paintings depicting the hunt
somehow transform into cuneiform and hieroglyphics. Records are kept. The
ability to transmit information and ideas across the generations improves. But
it takes a special skill and artistry and discipline to be able to do this. but
the payoff is often worth it because unlocking these ideas is to unlock power.
You know how to build better weapons, predict the seasons, heal the sick and
such. And so scribes become the technical elite &#151; not the big-boss, mind
you. It's always someone bigger and stronger. But those bigger and stronger
types now need scribes. Scribes know techniques. Scribes are technology. Scribe
tech.

### The Printing Revolution

But that's a really big bottleneck. Just over a thousand years ago, the Chinese
figure out how to make scribes less necessary by transcribing symbols by
pressing prints. So like so many inventions the Chinese did first but didn't
squeeze that lemon, and in another 740 years or so, the Gutenberg printing press
was invented. And so now books, previously the privileged of the powerful elite
can now be afforded by professional trades-people, merchants and businessmen.
And so the proto-middle-class, the French bourgeoisie were born, and in another
350 years the French Revolution happens in 1789. Of course the printing press
also fueled the American Revolution with pamphlets, newspapers and propaganda
such as Thomas Paine's Common Sense and The American Crisis, and all kinds of
subversive stuff from Benjamin Franklin.

## The Timeline of Information Technology

So that was the printing press. The story so far is the spoken word some untold
hundreds-of-thousands of years ago among nomadic hominids leads to the written
word. France, Spain and Indonesia have cave paintings going back some 50K years,
and about 5.5K years ago, proto-cuneiform clay-tablet in the Sumerian city of
Kish. Scrolls like the Dead Sea Scrolls verifiably kick in around 2,325 years
ago. We're in the year 2025 CE, so that's pretty telling, huh? Around 525 CE,
one of these scribes named Dionysius Exiguus figured he'd start counting years
from the birth of Jesus, which just so happened about 200 years after
scroll-tech. And then we have a 1.5K year fast-forward over the dark ages and
into the enlightenment to the Guttenberg printing press, which fueled the rise
of the middle class and lots of revolution.

### The Internet Age

From the Guttenberg press to the Internet was another 535 years, if you count
from 1983 when ARPANET adopted the TCP/IP protocol on Unix as the backbone for a
decentralized node-based dynamic routing network. It's just like the Guttenberg
press because of its insidiously subversive undermining of traditional
centralized power structures. All the people who complain about government
control might not think so, but this is one of the greatest gifts ever to
humanity. Knowledge took on an irrepressible wack-a-mole nature with the
Internet, which accelerated with the Web, yet another protocol sitting on TCP/IP
which kicked in around 1990, only 35 years ago. Popular web browsers like Mosaic
and Netscape kicked in around 93/94, making the Web displace proprietary
platforms like AOL, and a less dystopian free and open source future was
secured.

### The Mobile Revolution

The mobile Internet was toyed with on devices before the iPhone, but it was
really the iPhone in 2007 that accelerated the mobile Internet and Web
revolution, a mere 18 years ago. Mobile was probably the last really big
technology-fueled societal shift anything on the order of the steps we've been
documenting so far: spoken word, written word, cheap written word (books),
pervasive written word (internet), pervasive written word delivered to your
pocket (mobile).

## The Danger of Passive Consumption

Notice a trend? It's all about encoding and decoding information, and allowing
it to get re-created in your head by some decoding and playback mechanism.
That's usually reading. Or at least, traditionally it has been reading. But
that's only because the technology (techniques) had not allowed for lazy
shortcuts. And now with video delivered to those phones in our pockets via
YouTube and TikTok, the amount of laziness we can put into decoding and playing
back other peoples ideas in our heads is at an all-time high.

And so of course, this is the dangerous part. Reading forced you to think. Video
doesn't. Video appeals to the more basic parts of your brain, making you think
you're exercising rational thought when you're not. Visual images trigger
emotional responses as if you experienced something that you did not in fact
experience. Yes, writing does this too. But it is my assertion that when writing
does this, you are thinking more deeply by virtue of how much work it takes to
read, and your reactions are less knee-jerk and generally better considered and
more rational.

## The AI Revolution

I didn't know I was going there when I started writing this piece. But clearly,
we are going to the next level of this information revolution, post-mobile. And
that is of course the AI revolution. And if you look at how the nature and
usefulness of the encoding and decoding improvements at every step, from spoken
to written to distributed to in-your-pocket, the next step that AI layers on is
mentorship and guidance. In other words, the information itself can teach you
how to activate and use and generally make use of that very information. In
other words, the information itself can teach you how to use that same said
information to whatever ends... preferably, that you decide.

### Shepherds vs. Sheep

And herein lies a split. There's the animalistic emotional compunction of video
content, versus the more cerebral takes-work-to-access reading of the written
word. Things like Audible, the spoken word delivered in a shortcut loophole way
disguised as the written-word land somewhere in between. I'm not sure how I feel
about those yet. But I do know one thing. Those who ride this wave into the
future upon the crest of one split (video) will be sheep, and those who ride the
wave into the future on the crest of the other split (the written word) will be
the designers and creators of the future. The stratification of society is into
the leaders and the led. The shepherds and the flock.

## Being a Shepherd in the Information Age

And so in the age of information, how do shepherds shepherd? Well, they write
for starters. As Elon and Ilya lament we've reached peak data, help set a new
baseline. Allow there to be a flow of information out onto the Internet that
violates expectations. Let the LLMs diagnosing new crawled data be surprised at
quite how new something can be. There is nothing new under the sun, except for
when there is, and when it truly is it should light up like a beacon because
there's so precious little of it, and its genuine newness should be easy to
spot.

### The Importance of Personal Time

How? Like this. Sure, I can talk about history and pontificate like I did just
there above. But now, let's switch gears into hard-nosed productivity. Look at
this weekend like a precious window of time during which you have the
opportunity to change the world, because it's your own time. You're off the
clock of your employers, but at the same time you see the same challenges of the
world that your day-job compels you to face. It's now time to double-down on my
future-proofing concepts. I can get some of these chisel-strikes done that are
just so hard during the week, because in "agency mode", you're basically a
dancing monkey. Now this is not a bad thing, because you're also the magician.
And whether you are a performing magician wowing the audience and gaining great
satisfaction, or a dancing monkey with humiliation replacing the craftsman and
performer's pride is all a matter of mental state and preparation.

### The Value of Practice and Preparation

The preparation is actually in the practicing of the craft. It's to have
achieved that love-worthy state before-hand, so you're not caught off-guard and
struggling. The idea is that even when you are caught off-guard, that's
opportunity to enhance the show with ad hoc improvisational free-form
craftsmanship. But that has to have been practiced and committed to habit and
muscle memory. You can't go base-jumping or spelunking casually. You do it
having have practiced a million times and know your equipment and limits and
what will work every time and what won't.

## Future-Proofing Your Skills

Knowing your equipment is such a big friggin deal with future-proofing yourself
in the face of the AI revolution. It's just like the spoken word, written word,
prolific word, prolific pocket-word and now chatty prolific pocket-word. So much
of the what's in that tech stack remains identical. Words, generally English and
generally typed in on a keyboard are not going away. Their organization with
text editor and delivery over TCP/IP networks isn't going away. Their being
processed in resource-limited nodes, which given the right resources and
techniques can scale either horizontally or vertically, isn't going to change.
And the fact these nodes are mostly some form of Unix or Linux isn't going to
change.

### The Timeless Value of Vim

And perhaps most controversial of all, those text editors will always have a
vi/vim/nvim-bias to them because that's where the big timeless-tool muscle
memory win comes in with text editors: not VSCode. Not Cursor AI. Not JetBrains
IntelliJ or whatever they're calling forked Eclipse these days. All text editors
come and go, except for vi(m). Long after Cursor AI is gone, its successor will
still offer a vim emulation mode, because underlying truisms and fundamentals
are more long-lived than fads and trends. NeoVim counts as vim. The point is the
vi-like key-bindings and muscle memory that will not only last a lifetime, but
will let you forever improve and hone your skills over that lifetime. The
craftsmanship space provided by vi/vim/nvim is infinite.

### The Triumph of Linux

And if that wasn't controversial enough, vim'll be running on Linux, which won.
Windows didn't win. They had to add the Windows subsystem for Linux (WSL) to
remain a viable platform for developers. That means actually Linux won and
Windows is just along for the ride as a sort of remora leach riding the wave of
Linux for as long as it can with its incumbent upgrade cycles. It may look like
winning and could keep Microsoft alive and vibrant for a long time, but similar
to how IBM is still alive. Windows becomes utterly optional to everyone except
for those last languishing diehards who need their old game drivers. Valve Steam
will likely migrate all gamers over to a more timeless platform in the coming
years, so long as the sort of warchest that let Microsoft buy
Activision/Blizzard for $69 billion dollars doesn't also knock off Valve.

### Python and Vendor Independence

Similarly to how Microsoft developed WSL to remain a credible developer
platform, they hired Guido van Rossum, the creator of Python, just to have him
working for them as a ***Distinguished Engineer***, instead of as a wildcard out
in the industry. It's not like Microsoft owns Python as it's grown too large and
has had too clever of free and open source software (FOSS) licensing for too
long to be owned even by Microsoft (similar to Linux). But having Guido on the
Microsoft payroll does help them control the narrative and make Python look like
a Microsoft technology. The truth is it's one of those great paths to
future-proofing and making your vendors interchangeable. Write your stuff in
Python to sit on Linux, and you pretty much don't need any vendor &#151; a huge
component of future-proofing. All components become interchangeable and you are
beholden to no one.

## Getting Back to Work

Okay, so this has all been by way of warm-up for a day of coding. Getting back
on my horse after being knocked off by life and such. 

---

## Gemini 1.5's Thoughts

**Possible titles and headlines:**

* **The Double Whammy Detriment to Inspired and Inventive Productivity**
* **AI and the Future of Work: Will We Become Sheep or Shepherds?**
* **The Next Information Revolution: How AI Will Change the Way We Learn and Create**
* **Future-Proofing Your Skills in the Age of AI**
* **The Importance of Critical Thinking in the Age of AI**

**My opinion of the article:**

The author makes some thought-provoking points about the challenges of staying
creative and productive in the age of AI. I agree that it's important to be
mindful of the potential downsides of relying too heavily on AI, and that we
need to focus on developing our own critical thinking and creative skills. I
also appreciate the author's emphasis on the importance of journaling and using
timeless tools like Linux and Vim. Overall, I think this is a valuable article
that offers a lot of insights into the future of work and learning.
