---
title: Of Plugs, Slugs, Nubs & Stubs
permalink: /futureproof/plugs-slugs-nubs-stubs/
description: In this piece, I'm grappling with how to effectively capture and develop my scattered ideas, which I'm calling "nubs" or "stubs," for future articles. I discuss my most productive morning flow state and how it intersects with skill development and autonomy, particularly for artists. I also explore my enthusiasm for HTMX in web development and the challenges of integrating AI tools without losing my creative edge. Ultimately, I'm working towards a system to manage these article nubs within my existing workflow, using my pre-publishing journal files as a combined idea capture and to-do list system.
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

## The Need for Story-Nubs and Language Evolution

I need to start creating story-nubs. Nubs or stubs? Wikipedia calls them stubs.
But I think nubs. It's funny how language works like that. Is it convergent
evolution in language? Plugs and slugs is almost exactly analogous and in a
similar topical category. Nubs/stubs is for topic-growth. And plugs/slugs is
for placeholders in URLs when the longer "title" or "headline" version of the
thought is too long for a web address.

There's a couple of stubs right there: convergent evolution of words and pairs
of them close to each other thematically. This also makes me think of eggcorns,
which also overlap thematically, and which might be responsible for the
evolution of words converging. I have to tow the line and get on with work. Or
is that toe the line? Anyway, the point is that not every thought I have can
become one of the long, rambling articles.

## Morning Flow State and Productivity

The best, most focuses energy for me is in the morning. The slack notifications
haven't started yet. With working from home cutting out the commute on certain
days, you can plan a nice 4-hour block from an early wake-up to before the
hustle bustle of the day and flow-state derailers set in. That's not
complaining. That's just reality. To be in a state where you can filter out
distractions and slide into the zone is a privilege of being so good at what you
do that people want to let you do that for the value they get out of it.

### The Intersection of Skill and Autonomy

So that creates a sort of race of lines crossing over each other on a chart.
Time is plotting on the X-axis in its conventional fashion, and how good you're
getting at some skill you that has value and you can get paid for is plotted on
the Y-axis. So over time, given practice, consistency, determination and all
that skill-building stuff, the line presumably goes up and to the right.

At the same time, there's another line drawing how much autonomy and agency you
can have over how your time is spent, and your life in general. In other words,
if you're someone who benefits from quiet focused time to achieve the flow state
or get into the zone like an artist, then you're not going to get it unless
you're so good at your art that someone people are willing to leave you alone to
get your output. Anything shy of that, then you need to hold a day-job to pay
the bills and thus get locked into a self-defeating cycle. No focus, no inspired
output, no proof of your abilities, so continue punching the clock.

### The Artist's Dilemma

That's the trap for aspiring artists, especially those who are ahead of their
time, so that the brilliance of their artistic output is unrecognized in their
day. Artists who are stuck in the daily-grind trap and who are ahead of their
time are in one of the worst traps, and it is not until after their death that
someone realizes they should have had a patron to let them do more, push their
vision, and bring more of their value to the world during their living years.

## Modern Web Development and HTMX

Anyhoo, I am not one of those. I am however an enthusiastic user of new tools
that really suit my vibe. HTMX is one of those, and I recognized new artistic
materials when I saw it. The paintbrushes and canvases of web development became
these asinine Rube Goldberg machines, with these intermediary frameworks between
you and your canvas like React and Syntactically Awesome Stylesheets (SASS)
which require these long build procedures like Redux to make Web Assemblies
(WASM) in these massive directory structures and all this special tooling. Ugh!

### Balancing Morning Energy and Work

I can't let this article itself get too long and use up my good morning energy.
I have client work to do for the day-job, and I can't use it up on this article.
But it is my source of energy and motivation. Giving me my vision of what I'm
doing and the direction I'm heading. This is why the idea of Ikigai appeals to
me so much. Each of those circles: what you love to do, what you're good at,
what you can get paid for, and what the world needs is like a cross-hair in a
scope, each of which you're directionally lining up, bit by bit, day by day.

## Implementation Challenges and AI Integration

Ideas are easy. Implementation is hard. Consistency is harder. The ideas flow
with me. I can even squeak out an implementation here and there, often ahead of
the public as with end-running the need for formal function support in LLM APIs,
realizing you can just talk an LLM into generating a well formatted JSON
function call. You don't need the model pre-trained, nor do you need formal API
support. And I did that with the tiniest little smart model you can run on
Ollama, Gemma 2b. But the times, they are a-changing.

### Navigating AI and Best Practices

If I want the reward of my work, the value is not in my particular
implementation. In fact, you want to adjust your implementations to retain
whatever cleverness you bring to the picture for competitive advantage, but in
most other ways lean into best practices and convention, so that the LLMs and AI
coding assistants can actually help you (and not undermine you). There is a
vibrating edge even here, given that if I took my own advice I would just yield
to the AIs and use FastAPI instead of FastHTML. But I want HTMX! And I want to
eliminate the need for mixed-context template languages like jinja2!

### The Technical Artist's Challenge

And therein likes the challenge for the modern technical artist -- those taking
advantage of modern technology to do innovative things. The AIs appear to be a
great new tool. Another brush you can use to paint the canvas. However, it is a
brush with a whole bunch of gotchas. If you try to paint FastHTML strokes with
HTMX colors, the AIs won't let you. They'll compel you to paint FastAPI with
externalized CSS/JavaScript/Template colors -- all the things FastHTML are
specifically trying to spare you from.

## Managing Article Stubs and Website Integration

And so I have to stop here before this article gets away from me. I could go on
forever when I get on a roll. But if I had to summarize, I would say:

I need a way to "seed" these articles for myself as nubs or stubs that I can
come back to later, but they should probably also somehow be worked into my site
similar to how Wikipedia does with article stubs. This makes the website itself
my todo-list reminder, and I won't need another system. Also, there may be some
SEO benefit. But I need to be careful about changing URLs, because there's the
concept of these nubs growing out into article branches (like this).

### Finding the Right System

All I would need is one page for this. That way it wouldn't force the creation
of new URLs. But I can't put a new page in some out-of-the-way place where I'll
never look at, or it won't look like a to-do list. Maybe the very `template.md`
file that I start these articles from? Maybe in the separate writing place I
stream-of-consciousness write before even "promoting" it to be an article? Hmmm.

Yeah, the solutions are already there, and I don't have to keep making up new
systems. Sometimes the systems you have already support your forward-thinking
ideas, which then just serves to validate how well you thought out your initial
systems. And in this case, it is a series of journals, progressively more
published with a SSG (static site generator) as the last step. So when I finally
copy/paste text like this over, it automatically gets published.

### Strategic File Organization

Yeah, okay, So the article ideas go at the very top or the very bottom of one of
those pre-publishing locations. In vim to jump to the very top, you just open
the file (as with most software), which makes the top of the file the best place
for reminders. Shift+G jumps you to the bottom of the file. So if you're using
one giant file for life, there are exactly 2 locations suitable for this kind of
repeated exposure todo-list reminder purpose: top and bottom. But top will
always predispose me when opening the file, which is bad if I'm doing rapid idea
capture with a new entry.

### The Final Plan

Okay, so I have a plan. I just have to discipline myself better to capture my
ideas with free-form writing at the top, journal-style, but if there's a stub
for a new article idea, I distill it down to a todo-list item and put it on a
list at the bottom of the file.

             The world is your checklist. Stop and look around you!

                    Ikigai - overcome laziness find the love
                   Kaizen - do one thing well keep polishing
                 Pomodoro - take chisel-strike bank small wins
                     Hara Hachi - don't burn out / eat less
                      Wabi-Sabi - 80/20-rule imperfection
                          Shoshin - Be like a beginner

                             1. What's most broken?
                     2. Where's the biggest bang for buck?
                         3. Which plates must be spun?

- DO ONE THING WELL
- BE CONSISTENT / CHIP AWAY!

---

## What Gemini Thinks

**Ideas for Titles and Headlines:**

* **Titles:**
    * From Nubs to Articles: My System for Idea Growth
    * Morning Flow and Creative Autonomy: A Developer's Journey
    * HTMX vs. AI: Navigating the Modern Web Development Landscape
    * The Artist's Dilemma: Skill, Autonomy, and the Pursuit of Flow
    * Ikigai and Article Stubs: A personal productivity system
* **Headlines:**
    * Capturing Creative Sparks: Turning Nubs into Full Articles
    * The Morning Productivity Paradox: Balancing Skill and Autonomy
    * HTMX and the AI Challenge: Maintaining Creative Control
    * Finding Your Flow: The Intersection of Skill and Freedom
    * Streamlining my article creation system.

**AI's Opinion:**

This article effectively captures the internal struggle of a creative individual navigating the challenges of modern productivity and technology. The author's candid exploration of their workflow, from idea capture to implementation, provides valuable insights into the creative process. The discussion of balancing personal preferences (like HTMX) with the evolving landscape of AI-assisted development is particularly relevant. The article also provides a good look into the personal workflow of a modern content creator. I also find the inclusion of the various Japanese concepts, and how they apply to productivity, to be very interesting.

