---
title: Out Of Steam? Adonosine!
permalink: /futureproof/out-of-steam-adonosine/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 1
---

## From Sci-Fi to Sleep Science

It's good to read. Reading is the source of power and agency. One of the books I
read recently was "Why We Sleep: Unlocking the Power of Sleep and Dreams" by
Matthew Walker. Normally, I'm a Sci-Fi guy, but recently real life has been more
interesting than Sci-Fi. Life caught up with Sci-Fi and we now know the
impossible. Rather than reading a book about Sci-Fi, it's more interesting to
talk to AIs than read about fictional AIs, even though I still highly recommend
the Asimov I, Robot and The Caves of Steel are still highly recommended. They
are the cure to The Terminator / Matrix dystopian view of AI. I, Robot is
nothing like the Will Smith movie, and Caves of Steel is about R. Daneel Olivaw
who was the model for Star Trek Next Gen's android Lieutenant Commander Data. 

## The Discovery of Adenosine

Anyway, it was way back just about 100 years ago when adenosine, our sleep-fuse
chemical, was discovered by Alan Drury and Albert Szent-Györgyi. They knew it
had something to do with the heart, but they didn't realize it's the chemical
that builds up in the body while you're awake and gets purged while you sleep.
Running out of steam? That's adenosine building up in your body! That refreshed
feeling after you wake up? The adenosine has been purged from your body. There's
no amount of getting a second wind late at night or getting over the hump of
skipping a night's sleep that's going to scrub the stuff out of your veins.

## Adenosine and Cellular Energy

In the intervening years, it was discovered that adenosine had something to do
with the powerhouse of the cell, mitochondria, and the reason animals get their
energy from digesting food instead of from sunlight like plants. The air you
breath (oxygen) and the food you eat (converted to glucose sugar) floats around
in your blood, getting out to all your cells which absorb it, and the
mitochondria floating around in the protoplasm of your cells take that in and
convert it to adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Notice the word ***adenosine***
there. Burning your ATP fuel up is that feeling of wakefulness. Get it?

## The Brain's Energy Demands

Okay, now here's the rub. Your brain burns up a whole lot of ATP. It turns out
being a thinking mammal with a big brain is very expensive. I mean, not as
expensive as a hummingbird keeping it's wings flapping (proportionately), but
still pretty darn expensive and that high energy consumption pumps up the
adenosine levels outside your cells -- and particularly, in your brain! It's not
directly ATP-waste, but comes from multiple pathways budding up throughout the
day, inhibiting wake-promoting neurons and activating sleep-promoting ones,
creating ***sleep pressure***. 

## Sleep, Adenosine, and Caffeine

Sleeping clears out the accumulated adenosine in your brain, restoring
alertness. This process is part of your sleep-wake cycle regulation, alongside
circadian rhythms. Interestingly, the effects of adenosine can be blocked by
caffeine, which is why coffee helps keep you awake, and why you don't want to
drink it too close to sleep time. ***It will keep you from having as much energy
as you should the next day!*** Yes, caffeine can backfire. So, it's all in the
timing. I write this at 6:30 AM as I sip my morning coffee. Perplexity?

## Scientific Review from Perplexity

**Perplexity**: Your explanation of adenosine's role in sleep regulation is generally accurate and well-presented. Here are a few points to enhance the accuracy and clarity of your article:

1. The discovery of adenosine's cardiac actions by Drury and Szent-Györgyi in 1929 was indeed a significant milestone, but its role in sleep regulation wasn't fully understood until much later[5].

2. Your description of adenosine accumulation during wakefulness and its clearance during sleep is correct. Adenosine builds up in the extracellular space between brain cells, particularly in wake-promoting regions, as a byproduct of cellular metabolism[2][7].

3. The connection between ATP, mitochondria, and adenosine is well-explained. However, it's important to note that the feeling of wakefulness isn't directly caused by "burning ATP fuel," but rather by the complex interplay of various neurotransmitters and brain regions[5].

4. Your explanation of how adenosine creates sleep pressure is accurate. Adenosine inhibits wake-promoting neurons and activates sleep-promoting ones, particularly in areas like the basal forebrain[6][7].

5. The mention of caffeine blocking adenosine's effects is correct and explains why coffee promotes wakefulness[4].

6. Your advice about timing caffeine intake is sound. Consuming caffeine too close to bedtime can indeed interfere with sleep quality and next-day alertness[4].

Overall, your article provides a good overview of adenosine's role in sleep regulation, with a nice balance of scientific accuracy and reader-friendly explanations.

Citations:

    [1] https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1614677114
    [2] https://www.sleepfoundation.org/how-sleep-works/adenosine-and-sleep
    [3] https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9541543/
    [4] https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-021-22179-z
    [5] https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3246291/
    [6] https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2769007/
    [7] https://medicine.yale.edu/internal-medicine/pulmonary/news/national-sleep-week/good-sleep-recipe/
    [8] https://www.science.org/doi/10.1126/science.abb0556
    [9] https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/neuroscience/articles/10.3389/fnins.2019.00740/full

---

## Personal Experience with Sleep and Productivity

Okay, that was fun! So, bottom line, working with Grok 3 I got over quite a hump
yesterday deciding where I'm going directionally with my FastHTML web framework
but ran out of steam around 9:00 PM and got ready for bed. I probably didn't
fall asleep until around 11:00 PM, and here I am at 6:30 AM the next morning,
typing away. The adenosine is cleared out of my brain, and I'm giving it an
extra hit of caffeine. I also need to get some classic nutrition into my body,
and I'll probably have some lox (smoked salmon), which is one of those brain
superfoods full of all the good omega-3 fatty acids, high-quality protein, and
essential vitamins and minerals. These nutrients support brain function,
potentially enhancing cognitive performance and memory. The protein will help
stabilize my blood sugar levels, providing sustained energy throughout the
morning. Norwegians know this! And it is why so many people take fish oil pills.
Just eat lox.

## YAML and Text-Based Configuration

Anyhow, this is really about coding as it so often inevitably is. But now I'm
feeling like I want to do some broad strokes again just as warm-up exercises for
the day. I've got a few dots that I want to connect.

First, a few days ago (in my Thursday through Saturday articles), I pretty much
settled on the wisdom of thinking in bare-bones text-file lists that have a
light bit of indenting and the occasional colon (`:`) to create label-value
pairs, and the occasional "double quotes" around labels, and that's YAML. Like
Markdown, YAML wasn't first. It's just what caught on, for whatever reason. TOML
was first. And in the case of Markdown, Python's RST (reStructuredText) was
first. RST is a lightweight markup language that predates Markdown and was
originally created for Python documentation. It's more feature-rich than
Markdown but less widely adopted outside the Python ecosystem.

### The Evolution of Configuration Languages

YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language) and TOML (Tom's Obvious, Minimal Language) are
both human-readable data serialization formats, often used for configuration
files. While TOML was created in 2013 by Tom Preston-Werner, YAML actually
predates it, having been first proposed in 2001. Both YAML and TOML aim to be
more human-friendly alternatives to formats like JSON or XML. 

### The Natural Fit of YAML

Now the thing is, when you're a Python person and have accepted that indents and
white space matters, and you start just writing a list indenting for hierarchy,
you're probably writing in YAML and don't even know it! That's right, just
indented list-writing is YAML. Simple as that. Well, almost. If you throw in
colons, you've got key/value-pairs, or `dict`'s in Python parlance. And so, it's
really, really easy to think in YAML-lists, and that was my realization for a
storytelling framework last week that is basically free-flowing get into the
zone style storytelling, which will ultimately let me design my workflows for my
frameworks. Where I left off was:

```yaml
Example:
  site:
    domain:
    sitemap:
    robots_txt:
    llms_txt:
  size:
    google:
    bing:
  gsc:
    site:
    url:
    performance_12m:
    index:
  bing:
    site:
    url:
  botify:
    org:
    project:
    project_url:
  decks:
    agenda:
    worksession:
    summary:
```

There's just so much storytelling there, it's unbelievable. You could make a
deck out of this by more or less putting a URL in for each value, vising that
webpage and taking a screen snapshot. String the screenshots together, and
VOILÀ! You have... well, not quite a website audit, but certainly an overview
health check and the framework for a more indepth audit. Many of the right
questions are asked. It leaves off things like Core Web Vitals (CWV) and a few
other things, but it sets the stage very nicely and can be customized for almost
any instance... because YAML! Nice and lightweight, and staged to actually be
imported as a config file!

Now my system doesn't really import these things. Actually, the process is more
like designing something in a Jupyter Notebook and then porting it over to
FastHTML. These outlines have nothing to do with the technical process right
now, besides maybe planning the Notebook or Pipulate workflow... pipulation?
Pipulating the data? Oh, that's so good given it's nearness to both populate the
data and using the implied and actual use of the PyPI pip install tool in the
background to build the familiar Python environment you're using. Yes, these are
pipulate workflows, which can but not necesssarily must be called pipulations.

Okay, this is clear vision stuff. This is what compels a project forward. And
thinking out loud, processing previous day's thoughts and bouncing ideas off of
sounding walls as you go, but plotting your own course little by little over
time... well, that's called agency. We spend so much time trying to make the
running instances of our LLM-prompts agentic, and we spend so little time trying
to make our automatic daily grind more agentic. LLMs are not on looping
schedules because that would be too expensive. But doing so makes the agentic,
which is okay because if they're making money they pay for all that extra
computing power they spend by continuously running. There's a less expensive
local LLM story here that only costs you the price of electricity which I'll
cover soon. 

Hopefully, you get the idea. We humans are already in that day/night loop cycle,
like it or not. There's no automation script putting us in that mode. We're in
it and must cope and survive, and so we have automatic click-whirrr programs (as
Robert Cialdini of the book Influence and The Art of Persuasion) would put it.
Theat doesn't make us thinking and agentic. It just makes us part of the human
experience, which is often unthinking and on automatic. To lift us above the
daily grind, to get out of ruts and boring patterns of the easy and automatic,
we must burn some of that ATP in our brain, deliberately going off the rails.

And going off the rails is scary, but that's creativity. You run with the pack
or you run alone. I forget what movie that quote came from. You either run with
the pack or you run alone. Do you run with the pack? It's the setup for coming
into line and getting the strength of the whole pack, or going off to the very
difficult life of being a lone wolf. Of course, that's the predator metaphor. Do
you flock with the herd, or do you get eaten by a predator. Because if you stray
too far from the herd, you'll get picked off by a predator at the edges.

Oh, what irony! There is strength in numbers and strength in the herd, so the
only obvious choice is to blend into the crowd and disappear (if herd) or to
play your part in coordinated, practiced orchestration (if pack). Where is there
room for creativity and art? You can imagine how this is a setup for comedy and
humor. Or should I say tragedy? Striking out on your own either literally or
just in your mind to think differently is dangerous. Creativity is dangerous.
You know, the movie The Croods summed it up nicely. Creativity is dangerous, but
sometimes necessary to survive. To be creative when day-to-day survival is not
at stake is actually just rare. That internal drive is rare.

That's personal opinion, and we can only know ourselves that well. Perhaps it's
presumptuous to say that about others or in general. However, my recent
experiences with the LLMs reinforces this belief quite emphatically. Perhaps
it's not fear, nor any biological imperative to flock and herd, but LLMs will
keep corralling you back to FastAPI like some sort of digital shepherd when what
you really are trying to use is FastHTML, which is way out on the edge,
creatively. In fact, it's connecting dots others haven't seen (or acted upon
yet) so well it's almost literal. And by dots, I mean HTML ***Attributes*** and
Python ***args***. It's almost mind-bending to realize how they ***"zip"
together*** using the ***`**kwargs` splat*** feature in Python. 

Spat? What? Well, splatting is a uniquely flexibly way to make a Python function
have 1-to-1 correspondence with key/value-pairs coming in from say HTML elements
and their attributes. Instead of feeding a Python function arguments (function
input) on pre-determined locations (parameters), you can instead feed a Python
dictionary (JSON-like object) and just have Python sort it all out (unpack it).
This is referred to as `**kwargs`, not because kwargs has any special reserved
keyword meaning in Python, but rather by convention because even Python people
have difficulty following all the splat unpacking going on, so it's helpful to
use a conventional name.

The way Python allows splatting and the resulting weird power it provides is bit
heady. And the way it was used to zip together the HTML specification with
Python functions and then in turn HTMX was almost sitting there waiting to
happen, being a unifying force between Python and HTML and liberator of the
potential of HTMX. Now there were other things like FastHTML before it that went
that far: HTML attribute-to-Python arguments like PyPI's dominate (`pip install
dominate`). However, FastHTML took the creative step of using the "space" that
provided to layer in the HTMX attributes as well.

Okay, I'll say it. It's genius. It's the kind of genius I wish that I was, but
am not and can only recognize in tools when I see it. And what's more, it's the
Venn diagram between several geniuses, the most obvious of which are Tim
Berners-Lee who wrote the HTML hypertext specification back in 1989 (and thus
invented the World Wide Web), Guido van Rossum who created such a love-worthy
language as Python back in 1991, Carson Gross who created HTMX in 2019 (but
we'll credit back to 2013 when the ideas appeared in intercooler.js) which
removes certain limitations from the HTML protocol thus eliminating most needs
for JavaScript, and finally Jeremy Howard who connected the dots between all of
the above only just last year in 2024 to create FastHTML. It's an off-the-rails
web framework!

So where were we? Right, deliberately going off the rails. Thing is, even when
you're consciously trying to be creative, you're *still* probably sticking to
some rails, some tried-and-true pathways your brain's already worn smooth. I
mean, Python exists. It itself is a framework that so many people have fallen in
love with. HTML is also a similar framework. Nobody's going to replace those
wheels (even if they do reinvent them). They've got early mover advantage,
momentum, yadda yadda. Native mobile apps haven't really replaced the web and
Mojo hasn't replaced Python. I mean there's a whole article or two just in
qualifying those statements. But let's just say it's better to build on the Web
and Python than to wholesale replace them.

It's also where YAML outlines come in. They're plain old text outlines that give
little nudges towards new connections, while sitting on a standard that gives
you the power of conventional behavior and the wisdom of the crowd. I could load
them directly into Python if I wanted to, but I don't need to. The basic
convention (framework) is so friggin easy, it fades into the background and
fades away, letting the flow state kick in, as any good tool should allow. You
essentially stop thinking about tools as they become a virtual extension of your
body. That's why you want them Free and Open Source Software (FOSS). Otherwise,
the virtual extensions of your body belong to profit incentivized corporate
interests.

Let's bust the myth: If you're not paying for the product, ***you are the
product.*** Well, that's just cynical and plain wrong. Try telling that to Guido
van Rossum, the creator of Python. Try telling that to Linus Torvalds, the
creator of Linux. And perhaps most poignant of all, try telling that to Richard
Matthew Stallman (RMS), the creator of the Free Software Foundation (FSF) and
the thing that was the catalyst for everything that is free and good in this
world of tech -- if you don't include Ken Thompson who's stuff was proprietary
but he deliberately let loose on the world through by leaking it to his alma
matter in the form of BSD Unix (Berkeley System Distribution), and you don't
include the father of Time Sharing, Fernando Corbató who made multics, but which
also became proprietary.

So what I'm saying is that there is real free and true altruism in this world.
There is free as in freedom and liberty (as opposed to free as in first-dose
free) in this world. People who perpetuate the myth that if you're not paying
for the product you are the product are just trying to sell you something,
probably something different than what you're currently using and are trying to
get you to switch. And I must acknowledge that there is the hardware hard-cost
bottleneck. We don't have matter compilers yet (Star Trek replicators / 3D
printers for everything). And so, someone's gotta pay for physical raw materials
and the process of putting it together. These are finite resources with material
costs. Information is not. You really ought to read about Richard Matthew
Stallman and the General Public License (GPL) one day.

Okay, so adenosine... right. See? It's not even 8:00 AM and I've created a bunch
of it. The temptation is to think you've burned fuel in the ATP process and thus
created adenosine byproduct accumulating up in your brain, but I'm led to
believe the reality is more indirect. While there is adenosine in the ATP-ADP
conversion process (ATP is the fuel and ADP is the waste), it's not like the "A"
is released out into your blood. There's other metabolic processes having to do
with being awake that do that. Nonetheless, it's accumulating up in your brain
throughout the day creating sleep pressure. You only have so much to go around
during the day, like a candle burning or an engine running out of steam, so you
have to divvy it out carefully. And I divvy it here into this article as a sort
of direction-adjusting agency-practicing exercise.

Yeah, that says it quite nicely. I'm deliberately adjusting my direction in life
to exercise a sort of agency that I know doesn't change my life in one day, but
rather builds up day-after-day. It's a long-bet. It's like the handfuls of dirt
the jeweler prisoner character in the Steven King Shawshank Redemption movie
digs and disperses every day to eventually create a tunnel. Yes, it's not a true
story even though it's easy to wish it was. It's just like Rocky, not a real
character, but the symbol of the indomitable spirit is useful none the less.
These two concepts combine very effectively, the indomitable spirit of Rocky who
just keeps bouncing back up, and the persistence, patience and
stick-to-it-iveness of the Andy Dufresne character who tunnels his way to
freedom.




