---
title: Becomes Title tag & H1
permalink: /futureproof/slug/
description: 
layout: post
sort_order: 3
---

I always keep a few experimental websites around for SEO. The one that has had
the most staying power is `MikeLev.in`, which is my exact name with the dot of
the TLD (top-level domain) dropped in there. It's in the spirit of having the
website address exactly match the word you're going for, cleverly working the
TLD as part of the word. I noticed `FastHT.ML`, my new favorite Python web
framework (because it supports HTMX) do the same thing.

Anyhow, I used it mostly as a vanity blogging site over the years. There was a
point when I got off of a CPanel Bluehost/Hostmonster web host where I had it in
WordPress. Keeping PHP and WordPress versions up-to-date for such a minor site,
and even paying for hosting for that matter, seemed silly after awhile. Static
site generators (SGG) became all the rage, especially when GitHub built the
Ruby-powered Jekyll SGG into GitHub by default, as `github.io`, now branded as
GitHub Pages. So I converted my WordPress site over to just a bunch of markdown
files.

Anyway, the topics read like ancient history, and once I was on Markdown, it was
time for a reworking of the site with the newfound power of managing the site by
just editing text-files. Imagine just giving up a web user interface to manage a
website, and doing all by just editing text-files, some for templates, some for
content, all in simple markdown with a template language sprinkled in. The
template language by the way is the Shopify liquid templates.

What I gained in simplified website management and lowered hosting costs (it was
covered by my GitHub account), I lost in being cut off from Web logs. So I'm now
pretty dependent on Google Search Console and Bing Webmaster Tools for this
site. Additionally, once I determined that even with this system I had
cause/effect ability to build traffic, I basically blank-slated the site
content-wise. I stripped it down to one page to build it back up.

I didn't use redirects or anything to preserve any prior traffic. I decided the
world was changing, and I was going to change with it, focusing now on my
future-proofed Linux, Python, vim and git (LPvg) subsystem platform. In short,
if you know just enough Linux, Python, vim & git to get by, you'll always have
some relevance and your solutions will always have some teeth, even in the age
of AI. You can see this validated more and more in today's AI tooling-churn.

The dust hasn't settled. API standards and protocols are in flux. AI model
capabilities are in flux. LLMs are becoming multi-modal (able to handle vision),
even the small ones like Gemma 3 that was just released yesterday. How LLMs call
functions is in flux with multiple ChatGPT-inspired API function tool-calling
schemas in competition with Anthropic's proposed MCP (model context protocol).

And don't even get me started on the AI-powered coding tools, including Cursor
AI, GitHub Copilot, Codeium, TabNine, Kite, OpenAI Codex, Aider, ContinueDev,
Supermaven, ClaudeDev, Google IDX and Cline, each offering unique features such
as code completion, error correction, and integration with various AI models to
enhance coding efficiency. Ugh!

So, I will continue to carve out a safe haven and safe harbor where you can
continue to develop good habits and muscle memory, manipulating text files.
Linux is where you get things running (increasingly under a nix flake), Python
is what you get running, vim or some text editor/ID with a vim-mode is how you
make the text files that you get running, and git is how you package it up,
move it around and collaborate.

This will have a good 10 to 20 year run, no matter how things change. No matter
how fancy things get, no matter how many new platforms and frameworks are
created, there will always be this underlying reality. It has to get bundled-up
(git), it needs a context to run in (Linux), it's always made from text-files
(vim), and you need to be able to express things in those text files (Python).
Yes, there are other solutions that fit the bill, but this is a viable one that
suits me.

And so that's my plan. Continue to be productive before the dust settles. The
dust never may settle again. Because tools can make tools, the battle to make
your tools and create new dependencies may just be a low-barrier-to-entry game
now. Build a convenient API wrapper around someone else's service and resell it
as something new. What I propose is a backup plan to those dependencies.


